[[Ferrol_et+al_ReviewArbuscularMycorrhizasPlayersSustainable_2019]]

# [Review: Arbuscular mycorrhizas as key players in sustainable plant 5 phosphorus acquisition: An overview on the mechanisms involved*]()

## [[Nuria Ferrol]]; [[Concepción Azcón-Aguilar]]; [[Jacob Pérez-Tienda]]

### 2019

## Abstract
Phosphorus (P) is a poorly available macronutrient essential for plant growth and development and consequently for successful crop yield and ecosystem productivity. To cope with P limitations plants have evolved strategies for enhancing P uptake and/or improving P efficiency use. The universal 450-million-yr-old arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) (fungus-root) symbioses are one of the most successful and widespread strategies to maximize access of plants to available P. AM fungi biotrophically colonize the root cortex of most plant species and develop an extraradical mycelium which overgrows the nutrient depletion zone of the soil surrounding plant roots. This hyphal network is specialized in the acquisition of low mobility nutrients from soil, particularly P. During the last years, molecular biology techniques coupled to novel physiological approaches have provided fascinating contributions to our understanding of the mechanisms of symbiotic P transport. Mycorrhiza-specific plant phosphate transporters, which are required not only for symbiotic P transfer but also for maintenance of the symbiosis, have been identified. ==The present review provides an overview of the contribution of AM fungi to plant P acquisition and an update of recent findings on the physiological, molecular and regulatory mechanisms of P transport in the AM symbiosis. 45 Keywords: arbuscular mycorrhiza, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, phosphate transporter, phosphorus nutrition, phosphorus signalling 48 Abbreviations: arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM), inorganic phosphorus (Pi), phosphorus 49 (P) 50 51==

## Key concepts
#claim/arbuscular_mycorrhiza; #finding/symbiosis; #claim/arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #claim/phosphate_transporter; #mycelium; #glomus; #claim/arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #symbioses; #depletion_zone; #plant_growth; #plant_root; #astragalus_sinicus; #rhizophagus_irregularis; #hyphal_network

## Quote
> These mutants displayed the same mycorrhizal phenotype than the M. truncatula PT4 mutants, that is, a reduced colonization level and stunted arbuscules, which supports the idea that symbiotic Pi transfer is required for maintenance of the symbiosis


## Key points
- Professor José Miguel Barea, who recently passed away
- Phosphorus (P) is one of the most important nutrients for plant growth and development, as it is a central component of nucleic acids and phospholipids
- Another widespread strategy engaged by plants to overcome P deficiency is the formation of a mutualistic symbiotic interaction, referred as arbuscular mycorrhiza, with some soil-borne fungi belonging to the subphylum Glomeromycotina within the phylum
- Afterwards, orthologous of GvPT were identified in Rhizophagus irregularis (GintPT), Glomus mosseae (GmPT) and Gigaspora margarita (GigmPT)
- Cytoplasmic streaming is likely driven by water flow mediated by a fungal plasma membrane aquaporin, as suppression of host transpiration and knockdown of the Rhizophagus clarus aquaporin RcAQP3, which is highly expressed in the intraradical mycelia and mediates water transport across the plasma membrane, decelerated polyphosphate translocation [^34]
- These mutants displayed the same mycorrhizal phenotype than the M. truncatula PT4 mutants, that is, a reduced colonization level and stunted arbuscules, which supports the idea that symbiotic Pi transfer is required for maintenance of the symbiosis

## Synopsis

### Fungal Pi transporters
The first AM fungal Pi transporter, GvPT, was described in 1995 in Glomus versiforme [^21], a homolog of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pho84p.
Genes encoding the H+-ATPases generating the proton-motive force driving the uptake of Pi across the membrane of the extraradical mycelia have been identified in G. mosseae and R. irregularis [^22],[^23].
Afterwards, orthologous of GvPT were identified in Rhizophagus irregularis (GintPT), Glomus mosseae (GmPT) and Gigaspora margarita (GigmPT).
These transporters were found to be expressed in the extraradical mycelium, and in the arbuscules where the Pi flux is expected to be directed towards the plant cell [^24],[^25],[^26],[^27],[^28].
Functional characterization of the full complement of the Pi transporters is needed to understand their specific role in the different fungal structures

### Fungal Pi metabolism and translocation
Pi is transformed into ATP in the mitochondria and polymerized into polyphosphate, lineal polymers of three to thousands of Pi residues connected by high-energy bonds, in the vacuoles [^30].
Polyphosphate is translocated from the extraradical to the intraradical mycelia via cytoplasmic streaming and/or along a motile tubular vacuole system [^32],[^33].
Cytoplasmic streaming is likely driven by water flow mediated by a fungal plasma membrane aquaporin, as suppression of host transpiration and knockdown of the Rhizophagus clarus aquaporin RcAQP3, which is highly expressed in the intraradical mycelia and mediates water transport across the plasma membrane, decelerated polyphosphate translocation [^34].
The intraradical mycelium-expressed vacuolar Pi transporter PHO91 might mediate Pi export to the cytosol [^29].
It has been proposed that a plasma membrane VTC complex polymerizes cytosolic Pi into polyphosphate and exports it to the periarbuscular interface, which will be hydrolysed by a plant acid phosphatase [^37].
Further studies are required to uncover the mechanisms of polyphosphate breakdown and Pi efflux from the arbuscules

### The periarbuscular membrane
Symbiotic P uptake by a mycorrhizal plant occurs at a specialized interface formed in arbuscule-colonized cortical cells.
Pumplin and coworkers (2012), by expressing MtPT4 and other plasma membrane proteins from promoters active at different phases of the symbiosis, demonstrated that trafficking of these transporters occurs by default.
It was shown that proper targeting into the periarbuscular membrane is achieved by precise temporal regulation of gene expression, coincident with arbuscule formation.
This is coupled with a transient reorientation of the secretory pathway, favouring fusion with developing periarbuscular membrane rather than with the plasma membrane, and with changes in the protein cargo entering the secretory system of the arbuscule-colonized cortical cell [^45]

### Mycorrhiza-induced transporters
Putative Pi transporters mediating the acquisition of the Pi delivered by the fungus to the periarbuscular space were initially identified by their specific- or increased-expression in mycorrhizal roots relative to non-mycorrhizal plants.
HA1 isoforms of M. truncatula and rice have been shown to be essential to generate the proton gradient required for Pi uptake by the Pi transporters localized in the periarbuscular membrane, as disruption of the genes in Mtha and Osha mutants leads to impaired Pi transport via the mycorrhizal pathway [^60]
These mutants displayed the same mycorrhizal phenotype than the M. truncatula PT4 mutants, that is, a reduced colonization level and stunted arbuscules, which supports the idea that symbiotic Pi transfer is required for maintenance of the symbiosis.
The G. margarita Pi transporter GigPT1, that is expressed both in the extraradical and intraradical mycelium, has been shown to be a transceptor, indicating that Pi sensing is important for the fungus [^27]
These findings indicate that a flow of nutrients across the symbiotic interface is required to sustain arbuscule within the cortical cell.
Given that Pi fertilization increases plant stress tolerance and productivity, and that AM fungi increase plant nutrition and plant tolerance to multiple stresses, the optimized application of AM fungi in sustainable agriculture will be crucial for developing more P-efficient farming systems and to counteract the negative impacts of climate change

## Findings
- That is why AM fungi were suggested to play a key role in land colonization by plants. This plant-fungus association has proven to be an evolutionary successful strategy, since more than 80% of all terrestrial plant species live in symbiosis with AM fungi [^9]

##  Builds on previous research
- Although both paralogs are expressed in arbuscule-containing cells, the PT5 ones are also expressed in noncolonized cortical cells [^25]. ==The findings that the tomato LePT3, LePT4 and LePT5 transporters are simultaneously expressed in arbuscule-containing cells [^25],[^55], that symbiotic Pi transport was not affected in a null allele of the tomato LePT4 and that the expression of the other mycorrhiza-inducible transporters of tomato LePT3 and LePT5 remained unchanged in the mutant line suggest that there might exist functional redundancy between the three mycorrhiza-associated Pi transporters== [^48]

## Future work
- Further studies are required to uncover the mechanisms of polyphosphate breakdown and Pi efflux from the arbuscules.
- On the plant side, the Pi transporters mediating Pi flow through the mycorrhizal pathway have been identified and they are useful markers for a functional mycorrhiza. On the fungal side, the Pi transporters involved in acquisition have been characterized, but further studies are required to understand the specific roles of the full complement of the fungal Pi transporters. A new function, as Pi sensors, has emerged for the fungal and AM-inducible plant Pi transporters. Despite these advances, a full understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of symbiotic Pi flow remains to be achieved. In the future work, it would be of interest to identify the fungal players mediating Pi release from the arbuscules and to go further on the understanding of the mechanisms controlling the amount of Pi transferred to the plant, the interplay between direct and mycorrhizal pathways and the role of Pi and other nutrients in regulating the maintenance of the symbiosis. On the fungal side, despite the difficulties for the genetic manipulation of AM fungi, recent genome sequencing and the development of host-induced and virus-induced gene silencing techniques of AM fungal genes will accelerate our knowledge of Pi metabolism and transport in the arbuscule.


## References
[^1]: S. Ha, L.-S. Tran, Understanding plant responses to phosphorus starvation for improvement of plant tolerance to phosphorus deficiency by biotechnological approaches, Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 34 (2014) 16–30. [[Ha_UnderstandingPlantResponsesPhosphorusStarvation_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ha%2C%20S.%20Tran%2C%20L.-S.%20Understanding%20plant%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20starvation%20for%20improvement%20of%20plant%20tolerance%20to%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20by%20biotechnological%20approaches%2C%20Crit%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ha%2C%20S.%20Tran%2C%20L.-S.%20Understanding%20plant%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20starvation%20for%20improvement%20of%20plant%20tolerance%20to%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20by%20biotechnological%20approaches%2C%20Crit%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ha%2C%20S.%20Tran%2C%20L.-S.%20Understanding%20plant%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20starvation%20for%20improvement%20of%20plant%20tolerance%20to%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20by%20biotechnological%20approaches%2C%20Crit%202014)

[^2]: J.W. Spatafora, Y. Chang, G.L. Benny, K. Lazarus, M.E. Smith, M.L. Berbee, G. phylum-level phylogenetic classification of zygomycete fungi based on genomescale data, Mycologia. 108 (2016) 1028–1046. [[Spatafora_et+al_PhylumlevelPhylogeneticClassificationZygomyceteFungi_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20Lazarus%2C%20K.%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genomescale%20data%2C%20Mycologia%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20Lazarus%2C%20K.%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genomescale%20data%2C%20Mycologia%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20Lazarus%2C%20K.%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genomescale%20data%2C%20Mycologia%202016)

[^3]: M. Giovannetti, P. Fortuna, A.S. Citernesi, S. Morini, M.P. Nuti, The occurrence of anastomosis formation and nuclear exchange in intact arbuscular mycorrhizal networks, New Phytol. 151 (2001) 717–724. [[Giovannetti_et+al_OccurrenceAnastomosisFormationNuclearExchange_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Fortuna%2C%20P.%20Citernesi%2C%20A.S.%20Morini%2C%20S.%20The%20occurrence%20of%20anastomosis%20formation%20and%20nuclear%20exchange%20in%20intact%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Fortuna%2C%20P.%20Citernesi%2C%20A.S.%20Morini%2C%20S.%20The%20occurrence%20of%20anastomosis%20formation%20and%20nuclear%20exchange%20in%20intact%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Fortuna%2C%20P.%20Citernesi%2C%20A.S.%20Morini%2C%20S.%20The%20occurrence%20of%20anastomosis%20formation%20and%20nuclear%20exchange%20in%20intact%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%202001)

[^4]: A. Pepe, C. Sbrana, N. Ferrol, M. Giovannetti, An in vivo whole-plant experimental system for the analysis of gene expression in extraradical mycorrhizal mycelium, Mycorrhiza. 27 (2017) 659–668. [[Pepe_et+al_VivoWholeplantExperimentalSystemAnalysis_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pepe%2C%20A.%20Sbrana%2C%20C.%20Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20An%20in%20vivo%20whole-plant%20experimental%20system%20for%20the%20analysis%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20extraradical%20mycorrhizal%20mycelium%2C%20Mycorrhiza%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pepe%2C%20A.%20Sbrana%2C%20C.%20Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20An%20in%20vivo%20whole-plant%20experimental%20system%20for%20the%20analysis%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20extraradical%20mycorrhizal%20mycelium%2C%20Mycorrhiza%202017) 

[^5]: S.E. Smith, D. Read, eds., Mycorrhizal Symbiosis (Third Edition), Third Edit, Academic Press, London, 2008. [[S__2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=SE%20Smith%20D%20Read%20eds%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%20Third%20Edition%20Third%20Edit%20Academic%20Press%20London%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=SE%20Smith%20D%20Read%20eds%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%20Third%20Edition%20Third%20Edit%20Academic%20Press%20London%202008) 

[^6]: S.E. Smith, F.A. Smith, Roles of arbuscular mycorrhizas in plant nutrition and growth: new paradigms from cellular to ecosystem scales, Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. [[Smith_RolesArbuscularMycorrhizasPlantNutrition_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Roles%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%2C%20Annu) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Roles%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%2C%20Annu) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Roles%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%2C%20Annu)

[^7]: N. Ferrol, E. Tamayo, P. Vargas, The heavy metal paradox in arbuscular mycorrhizas: from mechanisms to biotechnological applications, J. Exp. Bot. 67 (2016) 6253-6265. [[Ferrol_et+al_HeavyMetalParadoxArbuscularMycorrhizas_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Tamayo%2C%20E.%20Vargas%2C%20P.%20The%20heavy%20metal%20paradox%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20from%20mechanisms%20to%20biotechnological%20applications%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Tamayo%2C%20E.%20Vargas%2C%20P.%20The%20heavy%20metal%20paradox%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20from%20mechanisms%20to%20biotechnological%20applications%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Tamayo%2C%20E.%20Vargas%2C%20P.%20The%20heavy%20metal%20paradox%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20from%20mechanisms%20to%20biotechnological%20applications%202016)

[^8]: M.C. Brundrett, Coevolution of roots and mycorrhizas of land plants, New Phytol. 154 (2002) 275–304. [[Brundrett_CoevolutionRootsMycorrhizasLandPlants_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brundrett%2C%20M.C.%20Coevolution%20of%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20land%20plants%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brundrett%2C%20M.C.%20Coevolution%20of%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20land%20plants%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brundrett%2C%20M.C.%20Coevolution%20of%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20land%20plants%202002)

[^9]: A. Schüβler, D. Schwarzott, C. Walker, A new fungal phylum, the Glomeromycota: phylogeny and evolution, Mycol. Res. 105 (2001) 1413–1421. [[Schüβler_et+al_FungalPhylumGlomeromycotaPhylogenyEvolution_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sch%C3%BC%CE%B2ler%2C%20A.%20Schwarzott%2C%20D.%20Walker%2C%20C.%20A%20new%20fungal%20phylum%2C%20the%20Glomeromycota%3A%20phylogeny%20and%20evolution%2C%20Mycol%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sch%C3%BC%CE%B2ler%2C%20A.%20Schwarzott%2C%20D.%20Walker%2C%20C.%20A%20new%20fungal%20phylum%2C%20the%20Glomeromycota%3A%20phylogeny%20and%20evolution%2C%20Mycol%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sch%C3%BC%CE%B2ler%2C%20A.%20Schwarzott%2C%20D.%20Walker%2C%20C.%20A%20new%20fungal%20phylum%2C%20the%20Glomeromycota%3A%20phylogeny%20and%20evolution%2C%20Mycol%202001)

[^10]: B. Bago, P.E. Pfeffer, Y. Shachar-Hill, Carbon Metabolism and Transport in Arbuscular Mycorrhizas, Plant Physiol. 124 (2000) 949-958. [[Bago_et+al_CarbonMetabolismTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20and%20Transport%20in%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizas%2C%20Plant%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20and%20Transport%20in%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizas%2C%20Plant%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20and%20Transport%20in%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizas%2C%20Plant%202000)

[^11]: N. Helber, K. Wippel, N. Sauer, S. Schaarschmidt, B. Hause, N. Requena, A Cell. 23 (2011) 3812–3823. [[Helber_et+al__2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N%20Helber%20K%20Wippel%20N%20Sauer%20S%20Schaarschmidt%20B%20Hause%20N%20Requena%20A%20Cell%2023%202011%2038123823) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N%20Helber%20K%20Wippel%20N%20Sauer%20S%20Schaarschmidt%20B%20Hause%20N%20Requena%20A%20Cell%2023%202011%2038123823) 

[^12]: A. Keymer, P. Pimprikar, V. Wewer, C. Huber, M. Brands, S.L. Bucerius, P.-M. Dörmann, M. Parniske, C. Gutjahr, Lipid transfer from plants to arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi, Elife. 6 (2017) e29107. [[Helber_LipidTransferFromPlantsArbuscular_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%20Keymer%20P%20Pimprikar%20V%20Wewer%20C%20Huber%20M%20Brands%20SL%20Bucerius%20PM%20D%C3%B6rmann%20M%20Parniske%20C%20Gutjahr%20Lipid%20transfer%20from%20plants%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungi%20Elife%206%202017%20e29107) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%20Keymer%20P%20Pimprikar%20V%20Wewer%20C%20Huber%20M%20Brands%20SL%20Bucerius%20PM%20D%C3%B6rmann%20M%20Parniske%20C%20Gutjahr%20Lipid%20transfer%20from%20plants%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungi%20Elife%206%202017%20e29107) 

[^13]: L.H. Luginbuehl, G.N. Menard, S. Kurup, H. Van Erp, G. V Radhakrishnan, A. Breakspear, G.E.D. Oldroyd, P.J. Eastmond, Fatty acids in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are synthesized by the host plant, Science 356 (2017) 1175–1178. [[Luginbuehl_et+al_FattyAcidsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017)

[^14]: K. Akiyama, K. Matsuzaki, H. Hayashi, Plant sesquiterpenes induce hyphal branching in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Nature. 435 (2005) 824–827. [[Akiyama_et+al_PlantSesquiterpenesInduceHyphalBranching_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Akiyama%2C%20K.%20Matsuzaki%2C%20K.%20Hayashi%2C%20H.%20Plant%20sesquiterpenes%20induce%20hyphal%20branching%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Akiyama%2C%20K.%20Matsuzaki%2C%20K.%20Hayashi%2C%20H.%20Plant%20sesquiterpenes%20induce%20hyphal%20branching%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Akiyama%2C%20K.%20Matsuzaki%2C%20K.%20Hayashi%2C%20H.%20Plant%20sesquiterpenes%20induce%20hyphal%20branching%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005)

[^15]: F. Maillet, V. Poinsot, O. André, V. Puech-Pagès, A. Haouy, M. Gueunier, L. Bécard, J. Dénarié, Fungal lipochitooligosaccharide symbiotic signals in arbuscular mycorrhiza, Nature. 469 (2011) 58–63. [[F_FungalLipochitooligosaccharideSymbioticSignalsArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=F%20Maillet%20V%20Poinsot%20O%20Andr%C3%A9%20V%20PuechPag%C3%A8s%20A%20Haouy%20M%20Gueunier%20L%20B%C3%A9card%20J%20D%C3%A9nari%C3%A9%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20Nature%20469%202011%205863) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F%20Maillet%20V%20Poinsot%20O%20Andr%C3%A9%20V%20PuechPag%C3%A8s%20A%20Haouy%20M%20Gueunier%20L%20B%C3%A9card%20J%20D%C3%A9nari%C3%A9%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20Nature%20469%202011%205863) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=F%20Maillet%20V%20Poinsot%20O%20Andr%C3%A9%20V%20PuechPag%C3%A8s%20A%20Haouy%20M%20Gueunier%20L%20B%C3%A9card%20J%20D%C3%A9nari%C3%A9%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20Nature%20469%202011%205863)

[^16]: A. Genre, M. Chabaud, C. Balzergue, V. Puech‐Pagès, M. Novero, T. Rey, J. Medicago truncatula roots and their production is enhanced by strigolactone, New Phytol. 198 (2013) 190–202. [[Genre_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaRootsTheirProduction_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Puech%E2%80%90Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20V.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20roots%20and%20their%20production%20is%20enhanced%20by%20strigolactone%2C%20New%20Phytol%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Puech%E2%80%90Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20V.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20roots%20and%20their%20production%20is%20enhanced%20by%20strigolactone%2C%20New%20Phytol%202013) 

[^17]: A.M. MacLean, A. Bravo, M.J. Harrison, Plant signaling and metabolic pathways enabling arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Plant Cell. 29 (2017) 2319-2335. [[Maclean_et+al_PlantSignalingMetabolicPathwaysEnabling_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=MacLean%2C%20A.M.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Plant%20signaling%20and%20metabolic%20pathways%20enabling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=MacLean%2C%20A.M.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Plant%20signaling%20and%20metabolic%20pathways%20enabling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=MacLean%2C%20A.M.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Plant%20signaling%20and%20metabolic%20pathways%20enabling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202017)

[^18]: M.J. Harrison, S. Ivanov, Exocytosis for endosymbiosis: membrane trafficking pathways for development of symbiotic membrane compartments, Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 38 (2017) 101–108. [[Harrison_ExocytosisEndosymbiosisMembraneTraffickingPathways_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Exocytosis%20for%20endosymbiosis%3A%20membrane%20trafficking%20pathways%20for%20development%20of%20symbiotic%20membrane%20compartments%2C%20Curr%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Exocytosis%20for%20endosymbiosis%3A%20membrane%20trafficking%20pathways%20for%20development%20of%20symbiotic%20membrane%20compartments%2C%20Curr%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Exocytosis%20for%20endosymbiosis%3A%20membrane%20trafficking%20pathways%20for%20development%20of%20symbiotic%20membrane%20compartments%2C%20Curr%202017)

[^19]: L.H. Luginbuehl, G.E.D. Oldroyd, Understanding the arbuscule at the heart of endomycorrhizal symbioses in plants, Curr. Biol. 27 (2017) 952–963. [[Luginbuehl_UnderstandingArbusculeHeartEndomycorrhizalSymbioses_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Understanding%20the%20arbuscule%20at%20the%20heart%20of%20endomycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20plants%2C%20Curr%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Understanding%20the%20arbuscule%20at%20the%20heart%20of%20endomycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20plants%2C%20Curr%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Understanding%20the%20arbuscule%20at%20the%20heart%20of%20endomycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20plants%2C%20Curr%202017)

[^20]: P. Pimprikar, C. Gutjahr, Transcriptional Regulation of Arbuscular Mycorrhiza Development, Plant Cell Physiol. 59 (2018) 678–695. [[Pimprikar_TranscriptionalRegulationArbuscularMycorrhizaDevelopment_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Transcriptional%20Regulation%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza%20Development%2C%20Plant%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Transcriptional%20Regulation%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza%20Development%2C%20Plant%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Transcriptional%20Regulation%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza%20Development%2C%20Plant%202018)

[^21]: M.J. Harrison, M.L. van Buuren, A phosphate transporter from the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme, Nature. 378 (1995) 626–629. [[Harrison_PhosphateTransporterFromMycorrhizalFungus_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995)

[^22]: N. Ferrol, J.M. Barea, C. Azcón-Aguilar, The plasma membrane H+-ATPase gene family in the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae, Curr. Genet. [[Ferrol_et+al_AzcónaguilarThePlasmaMembraneHatpase_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20The%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Curr) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20The%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Curr) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20The%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Curr)

[^23]: N. Requena, M. Breuninger, P. Franken, A. Ocón, Symbiotic status, phosphate, and sucrose regulate the expression of two plasma membrane H+-ATPase genes from the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae, Plant Physiol. 132 (2003) 1540–1549. [[Requena_et+al_SymbioticStatusPhosphateSucroseRegulate_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Requena%2C%20N.%20Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Oc%C3%B3n%2C%20A.%20Symbiotic%20status%2C%20phosphate%2C%20and%20sucrose%20regulate%20the%20expression%20of%20two%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Plant%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Requena%2C%20N.%20Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Oc%C3%B3n%2C%20A.%20Symbiotic%20status%2C%20phosphate%2C%20and%20sucrose%20regulate%20the%20expression%20of%20two%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Plant%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Requena%2C%20N.%20Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Oc%C3%B3n%2C%20A.%20Symbiotic%20status%2C%20phosphate%2C%20and%20sucrose%20regulate%20the%20expression%20of%20two%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20Plant%202003)

[^24]: A. Benedetto, F. Magurno, P. Bonfante, L. Lanfranco, Expression profiles of a phosphate transporter gene (GmosPT) from the endomycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae, Mycorrhiza. 15 (2005) 620–627. [[Benedetto_et+al_ExpressionProfilesPhosphateTransporterGene_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Benedetto%2C%20A.%20Magurno%2C%20F.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Expression%20profiles%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20%28GmosPT%29%20from%20the%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Benedetto%2C%20A.%20Magurno%2C%20F.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Expression%20profiles%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20%28GmosPT%29%20from%20the%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Benedetto%2C%20A.%20Magurno%2C%20F.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Expression%20profiles%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20%28GmosPT%29%20from%20the%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202005)

[^25]: R. Balestrini, J. Gómez-Ariza, L. Lanfranco, P. Bonfante, Laser microdissection reveals that transcripts for five plant and one fungal phosphate transporter genes are contemporaneously present in arbusculated cells, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 20 (2007) 1055–1062. [[Balestrini_et+al_LaserMicrodissectionRevealsThatTranscripts_2007]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balestrini%2C%20R.%20G%C3%B3mez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Laser%20microdissection%20reveals%20that%20transcripts%20for%20five%20plant%20and%20one%20fungal%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20are%20contemporaneously%20present%20in%20arbusculated%20cells%2C%20Mol.%20Plant-Microbe%20Interact%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balestrini%2C%20R.%20G%C3%B3mez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Laser%20microdissection%20reveals%20that%20transcripts%20for%20five%20plant%20and%20one%20fungal%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20are%20contemporaneously%20present%20in%20arbusculated%20cells%2C%20Mol.%20Plant-Microbe%20Interact%202007) 

[^26]: V. Fiorilli, L. Lanfranco, P. Bonfante, The expression of GintPT, the phosphate transporter of Rhizophagus irregularis, depends on the symbiotic status and phosphate availability., Planta. 237 (2013) 1267–1277. [[Fiorilli_et+al_ExpressionGintptPhosphateTransporterRhizophagus_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability.%2C%20Planta%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability.%2C%20Planta%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability.%2C%20Planta%202013)

[^27]: X. Xie, H. Lin, X. Peng, C. Xu, Z. Sun, K. Jiang, A. Huang, X. Wu, N. Tang, A. Salvioli, P. Bonfante, B. Zhao, Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis requires a phosphate transceptor in the Gigaspora margarita fungal symbiont, Mol. Plant. 9 (2016) 1583–1608. [[Xie_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisRequiresPhosphate_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xie%2C%20X.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.%20Xu%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xie%2C%20X.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.%20Xu%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xie%2C%20X.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.%20Xu%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016)

[^28]: I.E. Maldonado-Mendoza, G.R. Dewbre, M.J. Harrison, A phosphate transporter gene from the extra-radical mycelium of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices is regulated in response to phosphate in the environment, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 14 (2001) 1140–1148. [[Maldonado-Mendoza_et+al_PhosphateTransporterGeneFromExtraradical_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%2C%20Mol.%20Plant-Microbe%20Interact%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%2C%20Mol.%20Plant-Microbe%20Interact%202001) 

[^29]: E. Tisserant, A. Kohler, P. Dozolme‐Seddas, R. Balestrini, K. Benabdellah, A. 197198) reveals functional tradeoffs in an obligate symbiont, New Phytol. 193 (2012) 755–769. [[Tisserant_et+al_RevealsFunctionalTradeoffsObligateSymbiont_1971]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Dozolme%E2%80%90Seddas%2C%20P.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20reveals%20functional%20tradeoffs%20in%20an%20obligate%20symbiont%201971) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Dozolme%E2%80%90Seddas%2C%20P.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20reveals%20functional%20tradeoffs%20in%20an%20obligate%20symbiont%201971) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Dozolme%E2%80%90Seddas%2C%20P.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20reveals%20functional%20tradeoffs%20in%20an%20obligate%20symbiont%201971)

[^30]: T. Ezawa, S.E. Smith, F.A. Smith, P metabolism and transport in AM fungi, Plant Soil. 244 (2002) 221–230. [[Ezawa_et+al_MetabolismTransportAmFungiPlant_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20P.%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20AM%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20P.%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20AM%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20P.%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20AM%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002)

[^31]: Y. Kikuchi, N. Hijikata, K. Yokoyama, R. Ohtomo, Y. Handa, M. Kawaguchi, K. Saito, T. Ezawa, Polyphosphate accumulation is driven by transcriptome alterations that lead to near-synchronous and near-equivalent uptake of inorganic cations in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, New Phytol. 204 (2014) 638–649. [[Kikuchi_et+al_PolyphosphateAccumulationDrivenTranscriptomeAlterations_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcriptome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcriptome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcriptome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014)

[^32]: P.A. Olsson, I.M. van Aarle, W.G. Allaway, A.E. Ashford, H. Rouhier, Phosphorus effects on metabolic processes in monoxenic arbuscular mycorrhiza cultures, Plant Physiol. 130 (2002) 1162–1171. [[Olsson_et+al_PhosphorusEffectsMetabolicProcessesMonoxenic_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20van%20Aarle%2C%20I.M.%20Allaway%2C%20W.G.%20Ashford%2C%20A.E.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20metabolic%20processes%20in%20monoxenic%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20cultures%2C%20Plant%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20van%20Aarle%2C%20I.M.%20Allaway%2C%20W.G.%20Ashford%2C%20A.E.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20metabolic%20processes%20in%20monoxenic%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20cultures%2C%20Plant%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20van%20Aarle%2C%20I.M.%20Allaway%2C%20W.G.%20Ashford%2C%20A.E.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20metabolic%20processes%20in%20monoxenic%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20cultures%2C%20Plant%202002)

[^33]: Y. Uetake, T. Kojima, T. Ezawa, M. Saito, Extensive tubular vacuole system in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Gigaspora margarita, New Phytol. 154 (2002) [[Uetake_et+al_ExtensiveTubularVacuoleSystemArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20tubular%20vacuole%20system%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20tubular%20vacuole%20system%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20tubular%20vacuole%20system%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%202002)

[^34]: Y. Kikuchi, N. Hijikata, R. Ohtomo, Y. Handa, M. Kawaguchi, K. Saito, C. (2016) 1202–1208. [[Kikuchi_et+al__2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Y%20Kikuchi%20N%20Hijikata%20R%20Ohtomo%20Y%20Handa%20M%20Kawaguchi%20K%20Saito%20C%202016%2012021208) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Y%20Kikuchi%20N%20Hijikata%20R%20Ohtomo%20Y%20Handa%20M%20Kawaguchi%20K%20Saito%20C%202016%2012021208) 

[^35]: T. Aono, I.E. Maldonado-Mendoza, G.R. Dewbre, M.J. Harrison, M. Saito, Expression of alkaline phosphatase genes in arbuscular mycorrhizas, New Phytol. [[Aono_et+al_ExpressionAlkalinePhosphataseGenesArbuscular_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Aono%2C%20T.%20Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Expression%20of%20alkaline%20phosphatase%20genes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20New%20Phytol) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Aono%2C%20T.%20Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Expression%20of%20alkaline%20phosphatase%20genes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20New%20Phytol) 

[^36]: R. Ohtomo, M. Saito, Polyphosphate dynamics in mycorrhizal roots during colonization of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, New Phytol. 167 (2005) 571–578. [[Ohtomo_PolyphosphateDynamicsMycorrhizalRootsDuring_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphate%20dynamics%20in%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20during%20colonization%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphate%20dynamics%20in%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20during%20colonization%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphate%20dynamics%20in%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20during%20colonization%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202005)

[^37]: T. Ezawa, K. Saito, How do arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi handle phosphate? New insight into fine‐tuning of phosphate metabolism, New Phytol. (2018). doi:10.111/nph.15187. [[Ezawa_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiHandlePhosphate_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20K.%20How%20do%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20handle%20phosphate%3F%20New%20insight%20into%20fine%E2%80%90tuning%20of%20phosphate%20metabolism%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20K.%20How%20do%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20handle%20phosphate%3F%20New%20insight%20into%20fine%E2%80%90tuning%20of%20phosphate%20metabolism%202018) 

[^38]: S. Ivanov, E.E. Fedorova, E. Limpens, S. De Mita, A. Genre, P. Bonfante, T. Bisseling, Rhizobium–legume symbiosis shares an exocytotic pathway required for arbuscule formation, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109 (2012) 8316–8321. [[Ivanov_et+al_BisselingRhizobiumlegumeSymbiosisSharesExocytotic_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.E.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Mita%2C%20S.De%20Bisseling%2C%20Rhizobium%E2%80%93legume%20symbiosis%20shares%20an%20exocytotic%20pathway%20required%20for%20arbuscule%20formation%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.E.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Mita%2C%20S.De%20Bisseling%2C%20Rhizobium%E2%80%93legume%20symbiosis%20shares%20an%20exocytotic%20pathway%20required%20for%20arbuscule%20formation%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.E.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Mita%2C%20S.De%20Bisseling%2C%20Rhizobium%E2%80%93legume%20symbiosis%20shares%20an%20exocytotic%20pathway%20required%20for%20arbuscule%20formation%202012)

[^39]: X. Zhang, N. Pumplin, S. Ivanov, M.J. Harrison, EXO70I is required for development of a sub-domain of the periarbuscular membrane during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Curr. Biol. 25 (2015) 2189–2195. [[Zhang_et+al_Exo70iRequiredDevelopmentdomainPeriarbuscular_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20X.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20EXO70I%20is%20required%20for%20development%20of%20a%20sub-domain%20of%20the%20periarbuscular%20membrane%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Curr%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20X.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20EXO70I%20is%20required%20for%20development%20of%20a%20sub-domain%20of%20the%20periarbuscular%20membrane%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Curr%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20X.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Ivanov%2C%20S.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20EXO70I%20is%20required%20for%20development%20of%20a%20sub-domain%20of%20the%20periarbuscular%20membrane%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Curr%202015)

[^40]: N. Feddermann, R.R. Duvvuru Muni, T. Zeier, J. Stuurman, F. Ercolin, M. Schorderet, D. Reinhardt, The PAM1 gene of petunia, required for intracellular accommodation and morphogenesis of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, encodes a homologue of VAPYRIN, Plant J. 64 (2010) 470–481. [[Feddermann_et+al_Pam1GenePetuniaRequiredIntracellular_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feddermann%2C%20N.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.Duvvuru%20Zeier%2C%20T.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20The%20PAM1%20gene%20of%20petunia%2C%20required%20for%20intracellular%20accommodation%20and%20morphogenesis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20encodes%20a%20homologue%20of%20VAPYRIN%2C%20Plant%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feddermann%2C%20N.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.Duvvuru%20Zeier%2C%20T.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20The%20PAM1%20gene%20of%20petunia%2C%20required%20for%20intracellular%20accommodation%20and%20morphogenesis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20encodes%20a%20homologue%20of%20VAPYRIN%2C%20Plant%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feddermann%2C%20N.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.Duvvuru%20Zeier%2C%20T.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20The%20PAM1%20gene%20of%20petunia%2C%20required%20for%20intracellular%20accommodation%20and%20morphogenesis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20encodes%20a%20homologue%20of%20VAPYRIN%2C%20Plant%202010)

[^41]: N. Pumplin, S.J. Mondo, S. Topp, C.G. Starker, J.S. Gantt, M.J. Harrison, Medicago truncatula Vapyrin is a novel protein required for arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Plant J. 61 (2010) 482–494. [[Pumplin_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaVapyrinNovelProtein_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Mondo%2C%20S.J.%20Topp%2C%20S.%20Starker%2C%20C.G.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20Vapyrin%20is%20a%20novel%20protein%20required%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Mondo%2C%20S.J.%20Topp%2C%20S.%20Starker%2C%20C.G.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20Vapyrin%20is%20a%20novel%20protein%20required%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Mondo%2C%20S.J.%20Topp%2C%20S.%20Starker%2C%20C.G.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20Vapyrin%20is%20a%20novel%20protein%20required%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202010)

[^42]: J.D. Murray, R.R.D. Muni, I. Torres-Jerez, Y. Tang, S. Allen, M. Andriankaja, G. Li, A. Laxmi, X. Cheng, J. Wen, D. Vaughan, M. Schultze, J. Sun, M. Udvardi, Vapyrin, a gene essential for intracellular progression of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, is also essential for infection by rhizobia in the nodule symbiosis of Medicago truncatula, Plant J. 65 (2011) 244–252. [[Murray_et+al_GeneEssentialIntracellularProgressionArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Murray%2C%20J.D.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.D.%20Torres-Jerez%2C%20I.%20Tang%2C%20Y.%20a%20gene%20essential%20for%20intracellular%20progression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20is%20also%20essential%20for%20infection%20by%20rhizobia%20in%20the%20nodule%20symbiosis%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20Plant%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Murray%2C%20J.D.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.D.%20Torres-Jerez%2C%20I.%20Tang%2C%20Y.%20a%20gene%20essential%20for%20intracellular%20progression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20is%20also%20essential%20for%20infection%20by%20rhizobia%20in%20the%20nodule%20symbiosis%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20Plant%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Murray%2C%20J.D.%20Muni%2C%20R.R.D.%20Torres-Jerez%2C%20I.%20Tang%2C%20Y.%20a%20gene%20essential%20for%20intracellular%20progression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20is%20also%20essential%20for%20infection%20by%20rhizobia%20in%20the%20nodule%20symbiosis%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20Plant%202011)

[^43]: M.J. Harrison, G.R. Dewbre, J. Liu, A phosphate transporter from Medicago truncatula involved in the acquisition of phosphate released by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Plant Cell. 14 (2002) 2413-2429. [[Harrison_et+al_PhosphateTransporterFromMedicagoTruncatula_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20Plant%202002)

[^44]: H. Javot, R.V. Penmetsa, N. Terzaghi, D.R. Cook, M.J. Harrison, A Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter indispensable for the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 104 (2007) 1720–1725. [[Javot_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaPhosphateTransporterIndispensable_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007)

[^45]: N. Pumplin, X. Zhang, R.D. Noar, M.J. Harrison, Polar localization of a symbiosis-specific phosphate transporter is mediated by a transient reorientation of secretion., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109 (2012) 665-672. [[Pumplin_et+al_PolarLocalizationSymbiosisspecificPhosphateTransporter_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Noar%2C%20R.D.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Polar%20localization%20of%20a%20symbiosis-specific%20phosphate%20transporter%20is%20mediated%20by%20a%20transient%20reorientation%20of%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Noar%2C%20R.D.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Polar%20localization%20of%20a%20symbiosis-specific%20phosphate%20transporter%20is%20mediated%20by%20a%20transient%20reorientation%20of%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Noar%2C%20R.D.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Polar%20localization%20of%20a%20symbiosis-specific%20phosphate%20transporter%20is%20mediated%20by%20a%20transient%20reorientation%20of%202012)

[^46]: C. Rausch, P. Daram, S. Brunner, J. Jansa, M. Laloi, G. Leggewie, N. Amrhein, M. Bucher, A phosphate transporter expressed in arbuscule-containing cells in potato, Nature. 414 (2001) 462–470. [[Rausch_et+al_PhosphateTransporterExpressedArbusculecontainingCells_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001)

[^47]: U. Paszkowski, S. Kroken, C. Roux, S.P. Briggs, Rice phosphate transporters include an evolutionarily divergent gene specifically activated in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 99 (2002) 13324–13329. [[Paszkowski_et+al_RicePhosphateTransportersIncludeEvolutionarily_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002)

[^48]: R. Nagy, V. Karandashov, V. Chague, K. Kalinkevich, M. Tamasloukht, G. Xu, I. Jakobsen, A.A. Levy, N. Amrhein, M. Bucher, The characterization of novel mycorrhiza-specific phosphate transporters from Lycopersicon esculentum and Solanum tuberosum uncovers functional redundancy in symbiotic phosphate transport in solanaceous species, Plant J. 42 (2005) 236–250. [[Nagy_et+al_CharacterizationNovelMycorrhizaspecificPhosphateTransporters_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Chague%2C%20V.%20Kalinkevich%2C%20K.%20The%20characterization%20of%20novel%20mycorrhiza-specific%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20and%20Solanum%20tuberosum%20uncovers%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20solanaceous%20species%2C%20Plant%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Chague%2C%20V.%20Kalinkevich%2C%20K.%20The%20characterization%20of%20novel%20mycorrhiza-specific%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20and%20Solanum%20tuberosum%20uncovers%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20solanaceous%20species%2C%20Plant%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Chague%2C%20V.%20Kalinkevich%2C%20K.%20The%20characterization%20of%20novel%20mycorrhiza-specific%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20and%20Solanum%20tuberosum%20uncovers%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20solanaceous%20species%2C%20Plant%202005)

[^49]: K.H. Poulsen, R. Nagy, L. Gao, S.E. Smith, M. Bucher, F.A. Smith, I. Jakobsen, Physiological and molecular evidence for Pi uptake via the symbiotic pathway in a reduced mycorrhizal colonization mutant in tomato associated with a compatible fungus, New Phytol. 168 (2005) 445–454. [[Poulsen_et+al_PhysiologicalMolecularEvidencePiUptake_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Poulsen%2C%20K.H.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Physiological%20and%20molecular%20evidence%20for%20Pi%20uptake%20via%20the%20symbiotic%20pathway%20in%20a%20reduced%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20mutant%20in%20tomato%20associated%20with%20a%20compatible%20fungus%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Poulsen%2C%20K.H.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Physiological%20and%20molecular%20evidence%20for%20Pi%20uptake%20via%20the%20symbiotic%20pathway%20in%20a%20reduced%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20mutant%20in%20tomato%20associated%20with%20a%20compatible%20fungus%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Poulsen%2C%20K.H.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Physiological%20and%20molecular%20evidence%20for%20Pi%20uptake%20via%20the%20symbiotic%20pathway%20in%20a%20reduced%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20mutant%20in%20tomato%20associated%20with%20a%20compatible%20fungus%202005)

[^50]: X. Xie, W. Huang, F. Liu, T. Nianwu, L. Yi, L. Hui, Z. Bin, Functional analysis of the novel mycorrhiza‐specific phosphate transporter AsPT1 and PHT1 family from Astragalus sinicus during the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, New Phytol. 198 (2013) 836–852. [[Xie_et+al_FunctionalAnalysisNovelMycorrhizaspecificPhosphate_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xie%2C%20X.%20Huang%2C%20W.%20Liu%2C%20F.%20Nianwu%2C%20T.%20Functional%20analysis%20of%20the%20novel%20mycorrhiza%E2%80%90specific%20phosphate%20transporter%20AsPT1%20and%20PHT1%20family%20from%20Astragalus%20sinicus%20during%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20New%20Phytol%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xie%2C%20X.%20Huang%2C%20W.%20Liu%2C%20F.%20Nianwu%2C%20T.%20Functional%20analysis%20of%20the%20novel%20mycorrhiza%E2%80%90specific%20phosphate%20transporter%20AsPT1%20and%20PHT1%20family%20from%20Astragalus%20sinicus%20during%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20New%20Phytol%202013) 

[^51]: S. Wegmüller, S. Svistoonoff, D. Reinhardt, J. Stuurman, N. Amrhein, M. Bucher, A transgenic dTph1 insertional mutagenesis system for forward genetics in mycorrhizal phosphate transport of Petunia, Plant J. 54 (2008) 1115–1127. [[Wegmueller_et+al_TransgenicDtph1InsertionalMutagenesisSystem_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wegm%C3%BCller%2C%20S.%20Svistoonoff%2C%20S.%20Reinhardt%2C%20D.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20A%20transgenic%20dTph1%20insertional%20mutagenesis%20system%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wegm%C3%BCller%2C%20S.%20Svistoonoff%2C%20S.%20Reinhardt%2C%20D.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20A%20transgenic%20dTph1%20insertional%20mutagenesis%20system%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wegm%C3%BCller%2C%20S.%20Svistoonoff%2C%20S.%20Reinhardt%2C%20D.%20Stuurman%2C%20J.%20A%20transgenic%20dTph1%20insertional%20mutagenesis%20system%202008)

[^52]: F. Walder, D. Brulé, S. Koegel, A. Wiemken, T. Boller, P.E. Courty, Plant phosphorus acquisition in a common mycorrhizal network: Regulation of phosphate transporter genes of the Pht1 family in sorghum and flax, New Phytol. (2015) 1632–1645. [[F_CourtyPlantPhosphorusAcquisitionCommon_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=F%20Walder%20D%20Brul%C3%A9%20S%20Koegel%20A%20Wiemken%20T%20Boller%20PE%20Courty%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%20Regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%20New%20Phytol%202015%2016321645) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F%20Walder%20D%20Brul%C3%A9%20S%20Koegel%20A%20Wiemken%20T%20Boller%20PE%20Courty%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%20Regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%20New%20Phytol%202015%2016321645) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=F%20Walder%20D%20Brul%C3%A9%20S%20Koegel%20A%20Wiemken%20T%20Boller%20PE%20Courty%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%20Regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%20New%20Phytol%202015%2016321645)

[^53]: S.Y. Yang, M. Grønlund, I. Jakobsen, M.S. Grotemeyer, D. Rentsch, A. Miyao, H. Hirochika, C.S. Kumar, V. Sundaresan, N. Salamin, S. Catausan, N. Mattes, S. Heuer, U. Paszkowski, Nonredundant regulation of rice arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis by two members of the PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER1 gene family, Plant Cell. 24 (2012) 4236–4251. [[Yang_et+al_NonredundantRegulationRiceArbuscularMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gr%C3%B8nlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%2C%20Plant%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gr%C3%B8nlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%2C%20Plant%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gr%C3%B8nlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%2C%20Plant%202012)

[^54]: V. Volpe, M. Giovannetti, X.-G. Sun, V. Fiorilli, P. Bonfante, The phosphate transporters LjPT4 and MtPT4 mediate early root responses to phosphate status in non mycorrhizal roots, Plant. Cell Environ. 39 (2016) 660–671. [[Volpe_et+al_PhosphateTransportersLjpt4Mtpt4Mediate_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.-G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.-G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.-G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016)

[^55]: J. Gómez-Ariza, R. Balestrini, M. Novero, P. Bonfante, Cell-specific gene expression of phosphate transporters in mycorrhizal tomato roots, Biol. Fertil. Soils. 45 (2009) 845–853. [[G_et+al_CellspecificGeneExpressionPhosphateTransporters_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G%C3%B3mez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Cell-specific%20gene%20expression%20of%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tomato%20roots%2C%20Biol%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G%C3%B3mez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Cell-specific%20gene%20expression%20of%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tomato%20roots%2C%20Biol%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G%C3%B3mez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Cell-specific%20gene%20expression%20of%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tomato%20roots%2C%20Biol%202009)

[^56]: V. Gianinazzi-Pearson, C. Arnould, M. Oufattole, M. Arango, S. Gianinazzi, Differential activation of H+-ATPase genes by an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus in root cells of transgenic tobacco, Planta. 211 (2000) 609–613. [[Gianinazzi-Pearson_et+al_DifferentialActivationHatpaseGenesArbuscular_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20Oufattole%2C%20M.%20Arango%2C%20M.%20Differential%20activation%20of%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20root%20cells%20of%20transgenic%20tobacco%2C%20Planta%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20Oufattole%2C%20M.%20Arango%2C%20M.%20Differential%20activation%20of%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20root%20cells%20of%20transgenic%20tobacco%2C%20Planta%202000) 

[^57]: N. Ferrol, M.J. Pozo, M. Antelo, C. Azcón-Aguilar, Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis regulates plasma membrane H+-ATPase gene expression in tomato plants, J. Exp. Bot. 53 (2002) 1683–1687. [[Ferrol_et+al_AzcónaguilarArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisRegulates_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20C.%20Azc%C3%B3n-Aguilar%2C%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002)

[^58]: F. Krajinski, B. Hause, V. Gianinazzi‐Pearson, P. Franken, Mtha1, a plasma membrane H+‐ATPase gene from Medicago truncatula, shows arbuscule‐specific induced expression in mycorrhizal tissue, Plant Biol. 4 (2002) 754–761. [[Krajinski_et+al_PlasmaMembraneHatpaseGeneFrom_2002]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Gianinazzi%E2%80%90Pearson%2C%20V.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20a%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B%E2%80%90ATPase%20gene%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20shows%20arbuscule%E2%80%90specific%20induced%20expression%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tissue%2C%20Plant%20Biol.%204%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Gianinazzi%E2%80%90Pearson%2C%20V.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20a%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B%E2%80%90ATPase%20gene%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20shows%20arbuscule%E2%80%90specific%20induced%20expression%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tissue%2C%20Plant%20Biol.%204%202002) 

[^59]: F. Krajinski, P.E. Courty, D. Sieh, P. Franken, H. Zhang, M. Bucher, N. Gerlach, I. Kryvoruchko, D. Zoeller, M. Udvardi, B. Hause, The H+-ATPase HA1 of Medicago truncatula is essential for phosphate transport and plant growth during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Plant Cell. 26 (2014) 1808-1817. [[Krajinski_et+al_HatpaseHa1MedicagoTruncatulaEssential_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202014)

[^60]: H. Sen Wang, C. Yu, X.F. Tang, Z.J. Zhu, N.N. Ma, Q.W. Meng, A tomato endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-type omega-3 fatty acid desaturase (LeFAD3) functions in early seedling tolerance to salinity stress, Plant Cell Rep. 33 (2014) [[Wang_et+al_TomatoEndoplasmicReticulumertypeOmega3_2014]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20H.Sen%20Yu%2C%20C.%20Tang%2C%20X.F.%20Zhu%2C%20Z.J.%20A%20tomato%20endoplasmic%20reticulum%20%28ER%29-type%20omega-3%20fatty%20acid%20desaturase%20%28LeFAD3%29%20functions%20in%20early%20seedling%20tolerance%20to%20salinity%20stress%2C%20Plant%20Cell%20Rep%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20H.Sen%20Yu%2C%20C.%20Tang%2C%20X.F.%20Zhu%2C%20Z.J.%20A%20tomato%20endoplasmic%20reticulum%20%28ER%29-type%20omega-3%20fatty%20acid%20desaturase%20%28LeFAD3%29%20functions%20in%20early%20seedling%20tolerance%20to%20salinity%20stress%2C%20Plant%20Cell%20Rep%202014) 

[^61]: S.E. Smith, F.A. Smith, I. Jakobsen, Mycorrhizal fungi can dominate phosphate supply to plants irrespective of growth responses, Plant Physiol. 133 (2003) 16-20. [[Smith_et+al_MycorrhizalFungiDominatePhosphateSupply_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%2C%20Plant%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%2C%20Plant%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%2C%20Plant%202003)

[^62]: Q. Yao, X. Li, G. Feng, P. Christie, Influence of extramatrical hyphae on mycorrhizal dependency of wheat genotypes, Commun. Soil Sci. Plant Anal. 32 (2001) 3307–3317. [[Yao_et+al_InfluenceExtramatricalHyphaeMycorrhizalDependency_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yao%2C%20Q.%20Li%2C%20X.%20Feng%2C%20G.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Influence%20of%20extramatrical%20hyphae%20on%20mycorrhizal%20dependency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yao%2C%20Q.%20Li%2C%20X.%20Feng%2C%20G.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Influence%20of%20extramatrical%20hyphae%20on%20mycorrhizal%20dependency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yao%2C%20Q.%20Li%2C%20X.%20Feng%2C%20G.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Influence%20of%20extramatrical%20hyphae%20on%20mycorrhizal%20dependency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%202001)

[^63]: L. Munkvold, R. Kjøller, M. Vestberg, S. Rosendahl, I. Jakobsen, High functional diversity within species of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, New Phytol. Phytol. 214 (2017) 632–643. [[Munkvold_et+al_HighFunctionalDiversityWithinSpecies_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Munkvold%2C%20L.%20Kj%C3%B8ller%2C%20R.%20Vestberg%2C%20M.%20Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20High%20functional%20diversity%20within%20species%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Munkvold%2C%20L.%20Kj%C3%B8ller%2C%20R.%20Vestberg%2C%20M.%20Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20High%20functional%20diversity%20within%20species%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Munkvold%2C%20L.%20Kj%C3%B8ller%2C%20R.%20Vestberg%2C%20M.%20Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20High%20functional%20diversity%20within%20species%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017)

[^65]: R. Nagy, D. Drissner, N. Amrhein, I. Jakobsen, M. Bucher, Mycorrhizal phosphate uptake pathway in tomato is phosphorus-repressible and transcriptionally regulated., New Phytol. 181 (2009) 950–959. [[Nagy_et+al_MycorrhizalPhosphateUptakePathwayTomato_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Drissner%2C%20D.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20phosphate%20uptake%20pathway%20in%20tomato%20is%20phosphorus-repressible%20and%20transcriptionally%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Drissner%2C%20D.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20phosphate%20uptake%20pathway%20in%20tomato%20is%20phosphorus-repressible%20and%20transcriptionally%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nagy%2C%20R.%20Drissner%2C%20D.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20phosphate%20uptake%20pathway%20in%20tomato%20is%20phosphorus-repressible%20and%20transcriptionally%202009)

[^66]: J. Liu, W.K. Versaw, N. Pumplin, S.K. Gomez, L.A. Blaylock, M.J. Harrison, Closely related members of the Medicago truncatula PHT1 phosphate transporter gene family encode phosphate transporters with distinct biochemical activities, J. Biol. Chem. 283 (2008) 24673–24681. [[Liu_et+al_CloselyRelatedMembersMedicagoTruncatula_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liu%2C%20J.%20Versaw%2C%20W.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Closely%20related%20members%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20family%20encode%20phosphate%20transporters%20with%20distinct%20biochemical%20activities%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20J.%20Versaw%2C%20W.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Closely%20related%20members%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20family%20encode%20phosphate%20transporters%20with%20distinct%20biochemical%20activities%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liu%2C%20J.%20Versaw%2C%20W.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Closely%20related%20members%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20family%20encode%20phosphate%20transporters%20with%20distinct%20biochemical%20activities%202008)

[^67]: H. Liu, A.T. Trieu, L.A. Blaylock, M.J. Harrison, Cloning and characterization of two phosphate transporters from Medicago truncatula roots: regulation in response to phosphate and to colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 11 (1998) 14–22. [[Liu_et+al_CloningCharacterizationPhosphateTransportersFrom_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liu%2C%20H.%20Trieu%2C%20A.T.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Cloning%20and%20characterization%20of%20two%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20roots%3A%20regulation%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20and%20to%20colonization%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20H.%20Trieu%2C%20A.T.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Cloning%20and%20characterization%20of%20two%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20roots%3A%20regulation%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20and%20to%20colonization%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liu%2C%20H.%20Trieu%2C%20A.T.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Cloning%20and%20characterization%20of%20two%20phosphate%20transporters%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20roots%3A%20regulation%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20and%20to%20colonization%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%201998)

[^68]: S.J. Watts-Williams, I. Jakobsen, T.R. Cavagnaro, M. Gronlund, Local and distal effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization on direct pathway Pi uptake and root growth in Medicago truncatula, J. Exp. Bot. 66 (2015) 4061–4073. [[Watts-Williams_et+al_LocalDistalEffectsArbuscularMycorrhizal_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Watts-Williams%2C%20S.J.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Local%20and%20distal%20effects%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20direct%20pathway%20Pi%20uptake%20and%20root%20growth%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Watts-Williams%2C%20S.J.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Local%20and%20distal%20effects%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20direct%20pathway%20Pi%20uptake%20and%20root%20growth%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Watts-Williams%2C%20S.J.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Local%20and%20distal%20effects%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20direct%20pathway%20Pi%20uptake%20and%20root%20growth%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%202015)

[^69]: P.A. Olsson, E. Baath, I. Jakobsen, Phosphorus effects on the mycelium and storage structures of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus as studied in the soil and roots by analysis of fatty acid signatures, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63 (1997) [[Olsson_et+al_PhosphorusEffectsMyceliumStorageStructures_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20the%20mycelium%20and%20storage%20structures%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20as%20studied%20in%20the%20soil%20and%20roots%20by%20analysis%20of%20fatty%20acid%20signatures%2C%20Appl%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20the%20mycelium%20and%20storage%20structures%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20as%20studied%20in%20the%20soil%20and%20roots%20by%20analysis%20of%20fatty%20acid%20signatures%2C%20Appl%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Phosphorus%20effects%20on%20the%20mycelium%20and%20storage%20structures%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20as%20studied%20in%20the%20soil%20and%20roots%20by%20analysis%20of%20fatty%20acid%20signatures%2C%20Appl%201997)

[^70]: F. Breuillin, J. Schramm, M. Hajirezaei, A. Ahkami, P. Favre, U. Druege, B. Franken, U. Scholz, D. Reinhardt, Phosphate systemically inhibits development of arbuscular mycorrhiza in Petunia hybrida and represses genes involved in mycorrhizal functioning, Plant J. 64 (2010) 1002–1017. [[Breuillin_et+al_PhosphateSystemicallyInhibitsDevelopmentArbuscular_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%2C%20Plant%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%2C%20Plant%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%2C%20Plant%202010)

[^71]: Y. Kobae, Y. Ohmori, C. Saito, K. Yano, R. Ohtomo, T. Fujiwara, Phosphate treatment strongly inhibits new arbuscule development but not the maintenance of arbuscule in mycorrhizal rice roots, Plant Physiol. 171 (2016) 566–579. [[Kobae_et+al_PhosphateTreatmentStronglyInhibitsArbuscule_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%2C%20Plant%202016)

[^72]: D. Drissner, G. Kunze, N. Callewaert, P. Gehrig, M. Tamasloukht, T. Boller, G. Felix, N. Amrhein, M. Bucher, Lyso-phosphatidylcholine is a signal in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Science. 318 (2007) 265–268. [[Drissner_et+al_LysophosphatidylcholineSignalArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Drissner%2C%20D.%20Kunze%2C%20G.%20Callewaert%2C%20N.%20Gehrig%2C%20P.%20Lyso-phosphatidylcholine%20is%20a%20signal%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Science%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Drissner%2C%20D.%20Kunze%2C%20G.%20Callewaert%2C%20N.%20Gehrig%2C%20P.%20Lyso-phosphatidylcholine%20is%20a%20signal%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Science%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Drissner%2C%20D.%20Kunze%2C%20G.%20Callewaert%2C%20N.%20Gehrig%2C%20P.%20Lyso-phosphatidylcholine%20is%20a%20signal%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Science%202007)

[^73]: V. Karandashov, R. Nagy, S. Wegmuller, N. Amrhein, M. Bucher, Evolutionary conservation of a phosphate transporter in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 101 (2004) 6285–6290. [[Karandashov_et+al_EvolutionaryConservationPhosphateTransporterArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Wegmuller%2C%20S.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Evolutionary%20conservation%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Wegmuller%2C%20S.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Evolutionary%20conservation%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Nagy%2C%20R.%20Wegmuller%2C%20S.%20Amrhein%2C%20N.%20Evolutionary%20conservation%20of%20a%20phosphate%20transporter%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004)

[^74]: A. Chen, M. Gu, S. Sun, L. Zhu, S. Hong, G. Xu, Identification of two conserved cis-acting elements, MYCS and P1BS, involved in the regulation of mycorrhizaactivated phosphate transporters in eudicot species, New Phytol. 189 (2011) [[Chen_et+al_IdentificationConservedactingElementsMycs_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20A.%20Gu%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20S.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhizaactivated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20A.%20Gu%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20S.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhizaactivated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20A.%20Gu%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20S.%20Zhu%2C%20L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhizaactivated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011)

[^75]: H.J. Park, D.S. Floss, V. Levesque-Tremblay, A. Bravo, M.J. Harrison, Hyphal branching during arbuscule development requires Reduced Arbuscular Mycorrhiza1, Plant Physiol. 169 (2015) 2774-2788. [[Park_et+al_HyphalBranchingDuringArbusculeDevelopment_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Park%2C%20H.J.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Hyphal%20branching%20during%20arbuscule%20development%20requires%20Reduced%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza1%2C%20Plant%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Park%2C%20H.J.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Hyphal%20branching%20during%20arbuscule%20development%20requires%20Reduced%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza1%2C%20Plant%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Park%2C%20H.J.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Bravo%2C%20A.%20Hyphal%20branching%20during%20arbuscule%20development%20requires%20Reduced%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhiza1%2C%20Plant%202015)

[^76]: M.K. Rich, M. Schorderet, L. Bapaume, L. Falquet, P. Morel, M. ATA/RAM1 regulates symbiotic gene expression and fungal morphogenesis in arbuscular mycorrhiza, Plant Physiol. 168 (2015) 788–797. [[Rich_et+al_Ataram1RegulatesSymbioticGeneExpression_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rich%2C%20M.K.%20Schorderet%2C%20M.%20Bapaume%2C%20L.%20Falquet%2C%20L.%20ATA/RAM1%20regulates%20symbiotic%20gene%20expression%20and%20fungal%20morphogenesis%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%2C%20Plant%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rich%2C%20M.K.%20Schorderet%2C%20M.%20Bapaume%2C%20L.%20Falquet%2C%20L.%20ATA/RAM1%20regulates%20symbiotic%20gene%20expression%20and%20fungal%20morphogenesis%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%2C%20Plant%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rich%2C%20M.K.%20Schorderet%2C%20M.%20Bapaume%2C%20L.%20Falquet%2C%20L.%20ATA/RAM1%20regulates%20symbiotic%20gene%20expression%20and%20fungal%20morphogenesis%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%2C%20Plant%202015)

[^77]: P. Pimprikar, S. Carbonnel, M. Paries, K. Katzer, V. Klingl, M.J. Bohmer, L. DELLA complex activates transcription of RAM1 to regulate arbuscule branching, Curr. Biol. 26 (2016) 987–998. [[Pimprikar_et+al_DellaComplexActivatesTranscriptionRam1_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Carbonnel%2C%20S.%20Paries%2C%20M.%20Katzer%2C%20K.%20DELLA%20complex%20activates%20transcription%20of%20RAM1%20to%20regulate%20arbuscule%20branching%2C%20Curr%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Carbonnel%2C%20S.%20Paries%2C%20M.%20Katzer%2C%20K.%20DELLA%20complex%20activates%20transcription%20of%20RAM1%20to%20regulate%20arbuscule%20branching%2C%20Curr%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Carbonnel%2C%20S.%20Paries%2C%20M.%20Katzer%2C%20K.%20DELLA%20complex%20activates%20transcription%20of%20RAM1%20to%20regulate%20arbuscule%20branching%2C%20Curr%202016)

[^78]: V. Vijayakumar, G. Liebisch, B. Buer, L. Xue, N. Gerlach, S. Blau, J. Schmitz, M. Bucher, Integrated multi-omics analysis supports role of lysophosphatidylcholine and related glycerophospholipids in the Lotus japonicus- Glomus intraradices mycorrhizal symbiosis, Plant. Cell Environ. 39 (2016) 393–415. [[Vijayakumar_et+al_IntegratedMultiomicsAnalysisSupportsRole_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vijayakumar%2C%20V.%20Liebisch%2C%20G.%20Buer%2C%20B.%20Xue%2C%20L.%20Integrated%20multi-omics%20analysis%20supports%20role%20of%20lysophosphatidylcholine%20and%20related%20glycerophospholipids%20in%20the%20Lotus%20japonicus-%20Glomus%20intraradices%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vijayakumar%2C%20V.%20Liebisch%2C%20G.%20Buer%2C%20B.%20Xue%2C%20L.%20Integrated%20multi-omics%20analysis%20supports%20role%20of%20lysophosphatidylcholine%20and%20related%20glycerophospholipids%20in%20the%20Lotus%20japonicus-%20Glomus%20intraradices%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vijayakumar%2C%20V.%20Liebisch%2C%20G.%20Buer%2C%20B.%20Xue%2C%20L.%20Integrated%20multi-omics%20analysis%20supports%20role%20of%20lysophosphatidylcholine%20and%20related%20glycerophospholipids%20in%20the%20Lotus%20japonicus-%20Glomus%20intraradices%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202016)

[^79]: J.A. Menge, D. Steirle, D.J. Bagyaraj, E.L.V. Johnson, R.T. Leonard, Phosphorus concentrations in plants responsible for inhibition of mycorrhizal infection, New Phytol. 80 (2018) 575–578. [[Menge_et+al_PhosphorusConcentrationsPlantsResponsibleInhibition_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Menge%2C%20J.A.%20Steirle%2C%20D.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Johnson%2C%20E.L.V.%20Phosphorus%20concentrations%20in%20plants%20responsible%20for%20inhibition%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Menge%2C%20J.A.%20Steirle%2C%20D.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Johnson%2C%20E.L.V.%20Phosphorus%20concentrations%20in%20plants%20responsible%20for%20inhibition%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Menge%2C%20J.A.%20Steirle%2C%20D.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Johnson%2C%20E.L.V.%20Phosphorus%20concentrations%20in%20plants%20responsible%20for%20inhibition%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%202018)

[^80]: C. Balzergue, V. Puech-Pagès, G. Bécard, S.F. Rochange, The regulation of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis by phosphate in pea involves early and systemic signalling events, J. Exp. Bot. 62 (2011) 1049–1060. [[Balzergue_et+al_RegulationArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisPhosphate_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Puech-Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20V.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20Rochange%2C%20S.F.%20The%20regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20phosphate%20in%20pea%20involves%20early%20and%20systemic%20signalling%20events%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Puech-Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20V.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20Rochange%2C%20S.F.%20The%20regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20phosphate%20in%20pea%20involves%20early%20and%20systemic%20signalling%20events%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Puech-Pag%C3%A8s%2C%20V.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20Rochange%2C%20S.F.%20The%20regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20phosphate%20in%20pea%20involves%20early%20and%20systemic%20signalling%20events%202011)

[^81]: F.E. Sanders, B. Mosse, P.B. Tinker, The effect of foliar-applied phosphate on the mycorrhizal infection of onion roots, in: F.E. Sanders, B. Mosse, P.B. Tinker (Eds.) Endomycorrhizas, Academic Press, London, 1975, pp. 261–276. [[Sanders_et+al_EffectFoliarappliedPhosphateMycorrhizalInfection_1975]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanders%2C%20F.E.%20Mosse%2C%20B.%20Tinker%2C%20P.B.%20The%20effect%20of%20foliar-applied%20phosphate%20on%20the%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20of%20onion%20roots%201975) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanders%2C%20F.E.%20Mosse%2C%20B.%20Tinker%2C%20P.B.%20The%20effect%20of%20foliar-applied%20phosphate%20on%20the%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20of%20onion%20roots%201975) 

[^82]: B.D. Pant, A. Buhtz, J. Kehr, W. Scheible, MicroRNA399 is a long‐distance signal for the regulation of plant phosphate homeostasis, Plant J. 53 (2008) 731–738. [[Pant_et+al_Microrna399LongdistanceSignalRegulationPlant_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pant%2C%20B.D.%20Buhtz%2C%20A.%20Kehr%2C%20J.%20Scheible%2C%20W.%20MicroRNA399%20is%20a%20long%E2%80%90distance%20signal%20for%20the%20regulation%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20homeostasis%2C%20Plant%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pant%2C%20B.D.%20Buhtz%2C%20A.%20Kehr%2C%20J.%20Scheible%2C%20W.%20MicroRNA399%20is%20a%20long%E2%80%90distance%20signal%20for%20the%20regulation%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20homeostasis%2C%20Plant%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pant%2C%20B.D.%20Buhtz%2C%20A.%20Kehr%2C%20J.%20Scheible%2C%20W.%20MicroRNA399%20is%20a%20long%E2%80%90distance%20signal%20for%20the%20regulation%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20homeostasis%2C%20Plant%202008)

[^83]: A. Branscheid, D. Sieh, B.D. Pant, P. May, E.A. Devers, A. Elkrog, L. Schauser, W.-R. Scheible, F. Krajinski, Expression pattern suggests a role of MiR399 in the regulation of the cellular response to local Pi increase during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 23 (2010) 915–926. [[Branscheid_et+al_ExpressionPatternSuggestsRoleMir399_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Branscheid%2C%20A.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Pant%2C%20B.D.%20May%2C%20P.%20Expression%20pattern%20suggests%20a%20role%20of%20MiR399%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20the%20cellular%20response%20to%20local%20Pi%20increase%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Mol%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Branscheid%2C%20A.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Pant%2C%20B.D.%20May%2C%20P.%20Expression%20pattern%20suggests%20a%20role%20of%20MiR399%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20the%20cellular%20response%20to%20local%20Pi%20increase%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Mol%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Branscheid%2C%20A.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Pant%2C%20B.D.%20May%2C%20P.%20Expression%20pattern%20suggests%20a%20role%20of%20MiR399%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20the%20cellular%20response%20to%20local%20Pi%20increase%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Mol%202010)

[^84]: M. Gu, W. Liu, Q. Meng, W. Zhang, A. Chen, S. Sun, G. Xu, Identification of microRNAs in six solanaceous plants and their potential link with phosphate and mycorrhizal signaling, J. Integr. Plant Biol. 56 (2014) 1164–1178. [[Gu_et+al_IdentificationMicrornasSolanaceousPlantsTheir_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20W.%20Meng%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20Identification%20of%20microRNAs%20in%20six%20solanaceous%20plants%20and%20their%20potential%20link%20with%20phosphate%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signaling%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20W.%20Meng%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20Identification%20of%20microRNAs%20in%20six%20solanaceous%20plants%20and%20their%20potential%20link%20with%20phosphate%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signaling%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20W.%20Meng%2C%20Q.%20Zhang%2C%20W.%20Identification%20of%20microRNAs%20in%20six%20solanaceous%20plants%20and%20their%20potential%20link%20with%20phosphate%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signaling%202014)

[^85]: S.I. Lin, S.F. Chiang, W.Y. Lin, J.W. Chen, C.Y. Tseng, P.C. Wu, T.J. Chiou, Regulatory network of MicroRNA399 and PHO2 by systemic signaling, Plant Physiol. 147 (2008) 732-746. [[Lin_et+al_RegulatoryNetworkMicrorna399Pho2Systemic_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lin%2C%20S.I.%20Chiang%2C%20S.F.%20Lin%2C%20W.Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.W.%20Regulatory%20network%20of%20MicroRNA399%20and%20PHO2%20by%20systemic%20signaling%2C%20Plant%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lin%2C%20S.I.%20Chiang%2C%20S.F.%20Lin%2C%20W.Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.W.%20Regulatory%20network%20of%20MicroRNA399%20and%20PHO2%20by%20systemic%20signaling%2C%20Plant%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lin%2C%20S.I.%20Chiang%2C%20S.F.%20Lin%2C%20W.Y.%20Chen%2C%20J.W.%20Regulatory%20network%20of%20MicroRNA399%20and%20PHO2%20by%20systemic%20signaling%2C%20Plant%202008)

[^86]: J.A. López-Ráez, H. Bouwmeester, Fine-tuning regulation of strigolactone biosynthesis under phosphate starvation, Plant Signal. Behav. 3 (2008) 963–965. [[L_FinetuningRegulationStrigolactoneBiosynthesisUnder_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=L%C3%B3pez-R%C3%A1ez%2C%20J.A.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.%20Fine-tuning%20regulation%20of%20strigolactone%20biosynthesis%20under%20phosphate%20starvation%2C%20Plant%20Signal%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=L%C3%B3pez-R%C3%A1ez%2C%20J.A.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.%20Fine-tuning%20regulation%20of%20strigolactone%20biosynthesis%20under%20phosphate%20starvation%2C%20Plant%20Signal%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=L%C3%B3pez-R%C3%A1ez%2C%20J.A.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.%20Fine-tuning%20regulation%20of%20strigolactone%20biosynthesis%20under%20phosphate%20starvation%2C%20Plant%20Signal%202008)

[^87]: C. Balzergue, M. Chabaud, D. Barker, G. Bécard, S. Rochange, High phosphate reduces host ability to develop arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis without affecting root calcium spiking responses to the fungus, Front. Plant Sci. 4 (2013) [[Balzergue_et+al_HighPhosphateReducesHostAbility_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%2C%20Front%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%2C%20Front%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.%20B%C3%A9card%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%2C%20Front%202013)

[^88]: E. Foo, J.J. Ross, W.T. Jones, J.B. Reid, Plant hormones in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbioses: an emerging role for gibberellins, Ann. Bot. 111 (2013) [[Foo_et+al_PlantHormonesArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbioses_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%2C%20Ann%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%2C%20Ann%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%2C%20Ann%202013)

[^89]: V. Rubio, R. Bustos, M.L. Irigoyen, X. Cardona-López, M. Rojas-Triana, J. Paz-Ares, Plant hormones and nutrient signaling, Plant Mol. Biol. 69 (2009) 361–373. [[Rubio_et+al_PlantHormonesNutrientSignalingPlant_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Bustos%2C%20R.%20Irigoyen%2C%20M.L.%20Cardona-L%C3%B3pez%2C%20X.%20Plant%20hormones%20and%20nutrient%20signaling%2C%20Plant%20Mol%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Bustos%2C%20R.%20Irigoyen%2C%20M.L.%20Cardona-L%C3%B3pez%2C%20X.%20Plant%20hormones%20and%20nutrient%20signaling%2C%20Plant%20Mol%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Bustos%2C%20R.%20Irigoyen%2C%20M.L.%20Cardona-L%C3%B3pez%2C%20X.%20Plant%20hormones%20and%20nutrient%20signaling%2C%20Plant%20Mol%202009)

[^90]: D.S. Floss, J.G. Levy, V. Levesque-Tremblay, N. Pumplin, M.J. Harrison, DELLA proteins regulate arbuscule formation in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 110 (2013) 5025–5034. [[Floss_et+al_DellaProteinsRegulateArbusculeFormation_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013)

[^91]: C. Jiang, X. Gao, L. Liao, N.P. Harberd, X. Fu, Phosphate starvation root architecture and anthocyanin accumulation responses are modulated by the gibberellin-DELLA signaling pathway in Arabidopsis, Plant Physiol. 145 (2007) [[Jiang_et+al_PhosphateStarvationRootArchitectureAnthocyanin_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20C.%20Gao%2C%20X.%20Liao%2C%20L.%20Harberd%2C%20N.P.%20Phosphate%20starvation%20root%20architecture%20and%20anthocyanin%20accumulation%20responses%20are%20modulated%20by%20the%20gibberellin-DELLA%20signaling%20pathway%20in%20Arabidopsis%2C%20Plant%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20C.%20Gao%2C%20X.%20Liao%2C%20L.%20Harberd%2C%20N.P.%20Phosphate%20starvation%20root%20architecture%20and%20anthocyanin%20accumulation%20responses%20are%20modulated%20by%20the%20gibberellin-DELLA%20signaling%20pathway%20in%20Arabidopsis%2C%20Plant%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20C.%20Gao%2C%20X.%20Liao%2C%20L.%20Harberd%2C%20N.P.%20Phosphate%20starvation%20root%20architecture%20and%20anthocyanin%20accumulation%20responses%20are%20modulated%20by%20the%20gibberellin-DELLA%20signaling%20pathway%20in%20Arabidopsis%2C%20Plant%202007)

[^92]: H. Javot, R.V. Penmetsa, F. Breuillin, K.K. Bhattarai, R.D. Noar, S.K. Gomez, Q. Zhang, D.R. Cook, M.J. Harrison, Medicago truncatula mtpt4 mutants reveal a role for nitrogen in the regulation of arbuscule degeneration in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, Plant J. 68 (2011) 954–965. [[Javot_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaMtpt4MutantsReveal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Bhattarai%2C%20K.K.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20mtpt4%20mutants%20reveal%20a%20role%20for%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Bhattarai%2C%20K.K.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20mtpt4%20mutants%20reveal%20a%20role%20for%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Bhattarai%2C%20K.K.%20Medicago%20truncatula%20mtpt4%20mutants%20reveal%20a%20role%20for%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20Plant%202011)

[^93]: F. Breuillin-Sessoms, D.S. Floss, S. Karen Gomez, N. Pumplin, Y. Ding, V. Benedito, M.K. Udvardi, M.J. Harrison, Suppression of arbuscule degeneration in Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter4 mutants is dependent on the ammonium transporter 2 family protein AMT2;3, Plant Cell. 27 (2015) 1352–1366. [[Breuillin-Sessoms_et+al_SuppressionArbusculeDegenerationMedicagoTruncatula_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.Karen%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203%2C%20Plant%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.Karen%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203%2C%20Plant%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.Karen%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203%2C%20Plant%202015)

