[[Hestrin_et+al_SynergiesBetweenMycorrhizalFungiSoil_2019]]

# [Synergies between mycorrhizal fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant nitrogen acquisition](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s42003-019-0481-8)

## [[Rachel Hestrin]]; [[Edith C. Hammer]]; [[Carsten W. Mueller]] et al.

### 2019

## Abstract
Nitrogen availability often restricts primary productivity in terrestrial ecosystems. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are ubiquitous symbionts of terrestrial plants and can improve plant nitrogen acquisition, but have a limited ability to access organic nitrogen. Although other soil biota mineralize organic nitrogen into bioavailable forms, ==they may simultaneously compete for nitrogen==, with unknown consequences for plant nutrition. Here, ==we show that synergies between the mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis and soil microbial communities have a== highly non-additive effect on nitrogen acquisition by the model grass Brachypodium distachyon. ==These multipartite microbial synergies result in a doubling of the nitrogen that mycorrhizal plants acquire from organic matter== and ==a tenfold increase in nitrogen acquisition compared to non-mycorrhizal plants grown in the absence== of soil microbial communities. This previously unquantified multipartite relationship may contribute to more than 70 Tg of annually assimilated plant nitrogen, thereby playing a critical role in global nutrient cycling and ecosystem function.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #finding/organic_matter; #symbiosis; #claim/mycorrhizal_fungus; #result/primary_productivity; #method/NMDS; #claim/brachypodium_distachyon; #organic_material; #terrestrial_ecosystem; #method/terrestrial_plant; #result/ecosystem_function; #nutrient_cycling; #claim/rhizophagus_irregularis; #organic_nitrogen

## Quote
> Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, and soil microbial communities collected from an N gradient experiment to investigate how multipartite interactions influence plant N acquisition from organic matter and how these relationships respond to long-term N enrichment


## Key points
- Nitrogen availability often restricts primary productivity in terrestrial ecosystems
- Plant mesocosms, Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, and soil microbial communities collected from an N gradient experiment to investigate how multipartite interactions influence plant N acquisition from organic matter and how these relationships respond to long-term N enrichment
- Brachypodium distachyon seeds were planted in double-autoclaved sand and gravel with or without spores of the AM fungus Rhizophagus irregularis
- Our results demonstrate that emergent synergies between plants, mycorrhizal fungi, and free-living soil microbes have a highly non-additive effect on plant N acquisition from organic matter
- –0.15 that more than half of the N that AM plants derive from organic matter may be attributed to a synergistic relationship between AM plants and soil microbial communities and that this synergy is disrupted by a history of N enrichment
- Applied to estimates of global plant N uptake, these results suggest that more than 70 Tg of annually assimilated plant N can be attributed to interactions between AM plants and soil microbes, but that these relationships are sensitive to environmental change[^35]

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Nitrogen availability often restricts primary productivity in terrestrial ecosystems.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi form symbioses with the majority of terrestrial plants and can substantially enhance plant N acquisition from soil, thereby potentially alleviating plant N limitation and playing an important role in plant productivity and soil nutrient cycling[^3],[^4],[^5],[^6],[^7],[^8],[^9].
Long-term N enrichment disrupts these synergies, resulting in diminished mycorrhizal N acquisition from organic matter
These results have implications for terrestrial nutrient cycling models, agricultural management, and the understanding of ecosystem response to global change

### Methods
Brachypodium distachyon seeds were surface sterilized with ethanol and planted in cones filled with 1:1 mixtures of double-autoclaved sand and gravel (v:v) at near-neutral pH.
After ~1 month, plants were transplanted from cones into mesocosms containing a double-autoclaved mixture of sand and gravel.
For treatments with soil microbial inocula, 0.25 g of fresh soil from perennial switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) fields that had been fertilized with three different levels of N (0, 28, and 196 kg N ha−1 per year; Kellogg Biological Station Long-Term Ecological Research Site, Hickory Corners, MI) for eight years was added directly to the organic matter[^20].
For treatments without live soil microbial inocula, 0.25 g of double-autoclaved soil was added to the organic matter to control for any potential effect of abiotic soil components.
Each treatment was replicated seven times; replicates were arranged in a spatially

### Results
Plant mesocosms, AM fungi, and soil microbial communities collected from an N gradient experiment to investigate how multipartite interactions influence plant N acquisition from organic matter and how these relationships respond to long-term N enrichment.
Brachypodium distachyon seeds were planted in double-autoclaved sand and gravel with or without spores of the AM fungus Rhizophagus irregularis.
The root systems of plants that had been inoculated with spores were colonized by the fungus.
AM and non-AM plants were transplanted into mesocosms containing a double-autoclaved sand-gravel mixture and a patch of 15N/13C-enriched organic matter (Fig. 1a).
An inoculum of fresh grassland soil containing whole soil microbial communities that had been exposed to an N enrichment gradient for eight years was added to the organic matter in a subset of the mesocosms

### Conclusion
Applied to estimates of global plant N uptake, these results suggest that more than 70 Tg of annually assimilated plant N can be attributed to interactions between AM plants and soil microbes, but that these relationships are sensitive to environmental change[^35].
These findings can be used to constrain Earth system models and improve agricultural management, where organic inputs provide an important supply of N to plants.
Since terrestrial ecosystems are often N-limited, this has implications for global N cycling and net primary productivity[^36],[^37].


## Study subjects

### 7 biologically independent samples
- . ==Multipartite synergies between AM fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant biomass and N acquisition from organic matter. a Mesocosm design. b Plants acquired more N from organic matter in the presence of AM fungi and soil microbial communities. c Plants grown with both AM fungi and soil microbes acquired more N than expected based on the sum of N acquired by control plants and those grown with AM fungi or soil microbes alone. d AM colonization is associated with greater plant biomass. e AM plants grown with soil microbes derived a greater proportion of their total N from organic matter than control plants and plants grown with AM fungi or soil microbial communities alone. Significance levels are indicated with the following symbols: ·p < 0.1, *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001 and denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test performed on log-transformed data (b, d), an unpaired t test (c), and a Tukey’s HSD test performed on untransformed data (e). Error bars represent the standard error (n = 7 biologically independent samples)==. Relative 15N enrichment of fungal hyphae, plant roots, and plant aboveground tissue. Lowercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing log-transformed mean δ 15N values of fungal hyphae; uppercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing mean δ 15N values of plant tissues (p < 0.05). Error bars represent the standard error (n = 7 biologically independent samples)

### 7 biologically independent samples
- Multipartite synergies between AM fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant biomass and N acquisition from organic matter. a Mesocosm design. b Plants acquired more N from organic matter in the presence of AM fungi and soil microbial communities. c Plants grown with both AM fungi and soil microbes acquired more N than expected based on the sum of N acquired by control plants and those grown with AM fungi or soil microbes alone. d AM colonization is associated with greater plant biomass. e AM plants grown with soil microbes derived a greater proportion of their total N from organic matter than control plants and plants grown with AM fungi or soil microbial communities alone. Significance levels are indicated with the following symbols: ·p < 0.1, *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001 and denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test performed on log-transformed data (b, d), an unpaired t test (c), and a Tukey’s HSD test performed on untransformed data (e). Error bars represent the standard error (n = 7 biologically independent samples). ==Relative 15N enrichment of fungal hyphae, plant roots, and plant aboveground tissue. Lowercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing log-transformed mean δ 15N values of fungal hyphae; uppercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing mean δ 15N values of plant tissues (p < 0.05). Error bars represent the standard error (n = 7 biologically independent samples)==. Microbial lipid biomass present in organic matter. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis was used to measure microbial lipid biomass in the organic matter harvested from mesocosms containing AM plants only and both AM plants and free-living soil microbes from grasslands fertilized with 0, 28, and 196 kg N ha−1 per year. Significant differences between total microbial lipid biomass measured through a Tukey’s HSD test performed on log-transformed PLFA sums from each treatment are indicated by the following symbols: ·p < 0.1, *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01. Error bars represent the standard error of the mean of total microbial PLFAs measured in each mesocosm type (n = 7 biologically independent samples). Microbial lipid biomass associated with AM fungi, bacteria, and non-AM fungi is indicated in yellow, blue, and orange bars, respectively. Lowercase letters above the upper right-hand corner of each bar denote the results of Tukey’s HSD tests performed only for PLFAs of the same subtype (AM fungi, bacteria, or nonAM fungi; p < 0.05). N enrichment did not result in a substantial difference in the ratio of fungal:bacterial lipids present in mesocosms containing AM plants and microbial inoculum from grassland fields. However, the ratios of AM fungal:bacterial lipids in these mesocosms were higher than in mesocosms inoculated only with AM fungi, suggesting that the presence of soil microbial communities benefitted the AM fungi in addition to benefitting the plant. It is not clear whether this was a direct benefit to the AM fungi, or whether it was modulated through increased provision of plant photosynthates time of sampling, providing further evidence that N enrichment has a lasting effect on microbial function[^19],[^20]. The inhibitory effect that we observed of long-term N enrichment on microbially-mediated plant N acquisition supports these findings and demonstrates that this legacy effect has implications for plant-biotic synergies and ecosystem primary productivity

### 7 biologically independent samples
- Relative 15N enrichment of fungal hyphae, plant roots, and plant aboveground tissue. Lowercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing log-transformed mean δ 15N values of fungal hyphae; uppercase letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test comparing mean δ 15N values of plant tissues (p < 0.05). Error bars represent the standard error (n = 7 biologically independent samples). ==Microbial lipid biomass present in organic matter. Phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis was used to measure microbial lipid biomass in the organic matter harvested from mesocosms containing AM plants only and both AM plants and free-living soil microbes from grasslands fertilized with 0, 28, and 196 kg N ha−1 per year. Significant differences between total microbial lipid biomass measured through a Tukey’s HSD test performed on log-transformed PLFA sums from each treatment are indicated by the following symbols: ·p < 0.1, *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01. Error bars represent the standard error of the mean of total microbial PLFAs measured in each mesocosm type (n = 7 biologically independent samples). Microbial lipid biomass associated with AM fungi, bacteria, and non-AM fungi is indicated in yellow, blue, and orange bars, respectively. Lowercase letters above the upper right-hand corner of each bar denote the results of Tukey’s HSD tests performed only for PLFAs of the same subtype (AM fungi, bacteria, or nonAM fungi; p < 0.05). N enrichment did not result in a substantial difference in the ratio of fungal:bacterial lipids present in mesocosms containing AM plants and microbial inoculum from grassland fields. However, the ratios of AM fungal:bacterial lipids in these mesocosms were higher than in mesocosms inoculated only with AM fungi, suggesting that the presence of soil microbial communities benefitted the AM fungi in addition to benefitting the plant. It is not clear whether this was a direct benefit to the AM fungi, or whether it was modulated through increased provision of plant photosynthates time of sampling, providing further evidence that N enrichment has a lasting effect on microbial function[^19],[^20]. The inhibitory effect that we observed of long-term N enrichment on microbially-mediated plant N acquisition supports these findings and demonstrates that this legacy effect has implications for plant-biotic synergies and ecosystem primary productivity==. Mean relative 13C enrichment of microbial biomass lipids measured through phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis. Since organic matter was enriched with 13C and plant photosynthates were depleted in 13C, lower PLFA δ 13C values suggest that microbes derived a greater proportion of their C from plant photosynthates. Letters denote the results of a Tukey’s HSD test performed on log-transformed data; error bars represent the standard error (p < 0.01, n = 7 biologically independent samples)

## Data analysis
- #method/tukeys
- #method/t_test
- #method/tukeys_hsd_test

## Findings
- In the presence of both free-living soil microbial communities and AM fungi, plants derived up to 18% of their total N from organic matter—double the proportion of plant N derived from organic matter when plants grew with free-living soil microbes or AM fungi alone, even after differences in total plant biomass were accounted for (Fig. 1d, e)
- The composition of microbial lipid biomass was significantly different across treatments (Fig. 6, p < 0.01)

##  Builds on previous research
- NanoSIMS data are available from the authors upon request. The data that ==support the findings of this study are available in Cornell University’s digital repository eCommons==[^44]

## Differs from previous work
- In some cases, these changes have been decoupled from soil N concentrations measured at the. ==We expe==cted to find that a lasting inhibitory effect of N enrichment on microbially-mediated plant N acquisition from organic matter would be associated with N-driven decreases in microbial biomass and decomposition activity[^12],[^13],[^18],[^19],[^32],[^33]
- The PLFA 16:1ω5 is sometimes used as an indicator of AM fungal biomass, but can also be produced by other microbes[^41]. ==Unlike all other PLFAs measured here==, the PLFA 16:1ω5 was depleted in 13C

## Future work
- Additional research is necessary in order to evaluate the net effect of AM-microbial synergies and associated plant N acquisition on soil C stocks.

## Data and code
- The data that support the findings of this study are available in Cornell University’s digital repository eCommons[^44]. NanoSIMS data are available from the authors upon request. Received: 15 March 2019 Accepted: 28 May 2019
- Supplementary information accompanies this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/s42003019-0481-8.


## References
[^1]: Vitousek, P. & Howarth, R. Nitrogen limitation on land and in the sea: How can it occur? Biogeochemisty 13, 87–115 (1991). [[Vitousek_NitrogenLimitationLandOccur_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.%20Howarth%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20on%20land%20and%20in%20the%20sea%3A%20How%20can%20it%20occur%3F%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.%20Howarth%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20on%20land%20and%20in%20the%20sea%3A%20How%20can%20it%20occur%3F%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.%20Howarth%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20on%20land%20and%20in%20the%20sea%3A%20How%20can%20it%20occur%3F%201991)

[^2]: LeBauer, D. S. & Treseder, K. K. Nitrogen limitation of net primary productivity in terrestrial ecosystems is globally distributed. Ecology 89, 371–379 (2008). [[Lebauer_NitrogenLimitationPrimaryProductivityTerrestrial_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=LeBauer%2C%20D.S.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20net%20primary%20productivity%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%20is%20globally%20distributed%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=LeBauer%2C%20D.S.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20net%20primary%20productivity%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%20is%20globally%20distributed%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=LeBauer%2C%20D.S.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20net%20primary%20productivity%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%20is%20globally%20distributed%202008)

[^3]: Smith, S. E. & Read, D. J. Mycorrhizal Symbiosis 3rd edn, (Academic Press, London 2008). [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202008) 

[^4]: Govindarajulu, M. et al. Nitrogen transfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 435, 819–823 (2005). [[Govindarajulu_NitrogenTransferArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005)

[^5]: Mader, P. et al. Transport of N-15 from a soil compartment separated by a polytetrafluoroethylene membrane to plant roots via the hyphae of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytol. 146, 155–161 (2000). [[Mader_TransportN15FromSoilCompartment_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mader%2C%20P.%20Transport%20of%20N-15%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mader%2C%20P.%20Transport%20of%20N-15%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mader%2C%20P.%20Transport%20of%20N-15%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000)

[^6]: Hodge, A. & Storer, K. Arbuscular mycorrhiza and nitrogen: implications for individual plants through to ecosystems. Plant Soil 385, 1–19 (2015). [[Hodge_ArbuscularMycorrhizaNitrogenImplicationsIndividual_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Storer%2C%20K.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20nitrogen%3A%20implications%20for%20individual%20plants%20through%20to%20ecosystems.%20Plant%20Soil%20385%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Storer%2C%20K.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20nitrogen%3A%20implications%20for%20individual%20plants%20through%20to%20ecosystems.%20Plant%20Soil%20385%202015) 

[^7]: Hodge, A. Interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and organic material substrates. Adv. Appl. Microbiol. 89, 47–99 (2014). [[Hodge_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014)

[^8]: Thirkell, T. J., Cameron, D. D. & Hodge, A. Resolving the ‘nitrogen paradox’ of arbuscular mycorrhizas: fertilization with organic matter brings considerable benefits for plant nutrition and growth. Plant Cell Environ. 39, 1683–1690 (2016). [[Thirkell_et+al_ResolvingnitrogenParadoxArbuscularMycorrhizas_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Cameron%2C%20D.D.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Resolving%20the%20%E2%80%98nitrogen%20paradox%E2%80%99%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20fertilization%20with%20organic%20matter%20brings%20considerable%20benefits%20for%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Cameron%2C%20D.D.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Resolving%20the%20%E2%80%98nitrogen%20paradox%E2%80%99%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20fertilization%20with%20organic%20matter%20brings%20considerable%20benefits%20for%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Cameron%2C%20D.D.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Resolving%20the%20%E2%80%98nitrogen%20paradox%E2%80%99%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20fertilization%20with%20organic%20matter%20brings%20considerable%20benefits%20for%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%202016)

[^9]: Craig, M. E. et al. Tree mycorrhizal type predicts within-site variability in the storage and distribution of soil organic matter. Glob. Change Biol. 24, 3317–3330 (2018). [[Craig_TreeMycorrhizalTypePredictsWithinsite_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Craig%2C%20M.E.%20Tree%20mycorrhizal%20type%20predicts%20within-site%20variability%20in%20the%20storage%20and%20distribution%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Craig%2C%20M.E.%20Tree%20mycorrhizal%20type%20predicts%20within-site%20variability%20in%20the%20storage%20and%20distribution%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Craig%2C%20M.E.%20Tree%20mycorrhizal%20type%20predicts%20within-site%20variability%20in%20the%20storage%20and%20distribution%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018)

[^10]: Tisserant, E. et al. The transcriptome of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices (DAOM 197198) reveals functional tradeoffs in an obligate symbiont. New Phytol. 193, 755–769 (2012). [[Tisserant_TranscriptomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusGlomus_1971]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201971) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201971) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201971)

[^11]: Hodge, A. & Fitter, A. H. Substantial nitrogen acquisition by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic material has implications for N cycling. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 107, 13754–13759 (2010). [[Hodge_SubstantialNitrogenAcquisitionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010)

[^12]: Cheng, L. et al. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi increase organic carbon decomposition under elevated CO2. Science 337, 1084–1087 (2012). [[Cheng_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiIncreaseOrganic_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012)

[^13]: Hodge, A., Campbell, C. D. & Fitter, A. H. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature 413, 297–299 (2001). [[Hodge_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^14]: Nuccio, E. E. et al. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus significantly modifies the soil bacterial community and nitrogen cycling during litter decomposition. Environ. Microbiol. 15, 1870–1881 (2013). [[Nuccio_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusSignificantlyModifies_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013)

[^15]: Bukovska, P. et al. Utilization of organic nitrogen by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi-is there a specific role for protists and ammonia oxidizers? Mycorrhiza 28, 269–283 (2018). [[Bukovska_UtilizationOrganicNitrogenArbuscularMycorrhizal_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Utilization%20of%20organic%20nitrogen%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi-is%20there%20a%20specific%20role%20for%20protists%20and%20ammonia%20oxidizers%3F%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Utilization%20of%20organic%20nitrogen%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi-is%20there%20a%20specific%20role%20for%20protists%20and%20ammonia%20oxidizers%3F%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Utilization%20of%20organic%20nitrogen%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi-is%20there%20a%20specific%20role%20for%20protists%20and%20ammonia%20oxidizers%3F%202018)

[^16]: Treseder, K. K. Nitrogen additions and microbial biomass: a meta-analysis of ecosystem studies. Ecol. Lett. 11, 1111–1120 (2008). [[Treseder_NitrogenAdditionsMicrobialBiomassMetaanalysis_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20additions%20and%20microbial%20biomass%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%20of%20ecosystem%20studies%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20additions%20and%20microbial%20biomass%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%20of%20ecosystem%20studies%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Nitrogen%20additions%20and%20microbial%20biomass%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%20of%20ecosystem%20studies%202008)

[^17]: Oates, L. G., Duncan, D. S., Sanford, G. R., Liang, C. & Jackson, R. D. Bioenergy cropping systems that incorporate native grasses stimulate growth of plant-associated soil microbes in the absence of nitrogen fertilization. Agr. Ecosyst. Environ. 233, 396–403 (2016). [[Oates_et+al_BioenergyCroppingSystemsThatIncorporate_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oates%2C%20L.G.%20Duncan%2C%20D.S.%20Sanford%2C%20G.R.%20Liang%2C%20C.%20Bioenergy%20cropping%20systems%20that%20incorporate%20native%20grasses%20stimulate%20growth%20of%20plant-associated%20soil%20microbes%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oates%2C%20L.G.%20Duncan%2C%20D.S.%20Sanford%2C%20G.R.%20Liang%2C%20C.%20Bioenergy%20cropping%20systems%20that%20incorporate%20native%20grasses%20stimulate%20growth%20of%20plant-associated%20soil%20microbes%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oates%2C%20L.G.%20Duncan%2C%20D.S.%20Sanford%2C%20G.R.%20Liang%2C%20C.%20Bioenergy%20cropping%20systems%20that%20incorporate%20native%20grasses%20stimulate%20growth%20of%20plant-associated%20soil%20microbes%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%202016)

[^18]: Fierer, N. et al. Comparative metagenomic, phylogenetic and physiological analyses of soil microbial communities across nitrogen gradients. ISME J. 6, 1007–1017 (2012). [[Fierer_ComparativeMetagenomicPhylogeneticPhysiologicalAnalyses_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fierer%2C%20N.%20Comparative%20metagenomic%2C%20phylogenetic%20and%20physiological%20analyses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20across%20nitrogen%20gradients%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fierer%2C%20N.%20Comparative%20metagenomic%2C%20phylogenetic%20and%20physiological%20analyses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20across%20nitrogen%20gradients%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fierer%2C%20N.%20Comparative%20metagenomic%2C%20phylogenetic%20and%20physiological%20analyses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20across%20nitrogen%20gradients%202012)

[^19]: Leff, J. et al. Consistent responses of soil microbial communities to elevated nutrient inputs in grasslands across the globe. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. 112, 10967–10972 (2016). [[Leff_ConsistentResponsesSoilMicrobialCommunities_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leff%2C%20J.%20Consistent%20responses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20to%20elevated%20nutrient%20inputs%20in%20grasslands%20across%20the%20globe%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leff%2C%20J.%20Consistent%20responses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20to%20elevated%20nutrient%20inputs%20in%20grasslands%20across%20the%20globe%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leff%2C%20J.%20Consistent%20responses%20of%20soil%20microbial%20communities%20to%20elevated%20nutrient%20inputs%20in%20grasslands%20across%20the%20globe%202016)

[^20]: Roley, S. S. et al. Associative nitrogen fixation (ANF) in switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) across a nitrogen input gradient. PLoS ONE 13, e0197320 (2018). [[Roley_AssociativeNitrogenFixationanfSwitchgrass_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Roley%2C%20S.S.%20Associative%20nitrogen%20fixation%20%28ANF%29%20in%20switchgrass%20%28Panicum%20virgatum%29%20across%20a%20nitrogen%20input%20gradient%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Roley%2C%20S.S.%20Associative%20nitrogen%20fixation%20%28ANF%29%20in%20switchgrass%20%28Panicum%20virgatum%29%20across%20a%20nitrogen%20input%20gradient%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Roley%2C%20S.S.%20Associative%20nitrogen%20fixation%20%28ANF%29%20in%20switchgrass%20%28Panicum%20virgatum%29%20across%20a%20nitrogen%20input%20gradient%202018)

[^21]: Averill, C., Turner, B. L. & Finzi, A. C. Mycorrhiza-mediated competition between plants and decomposers drives soil carbon storage. Nature 505, 543–546 (2014). [[Averill_et+al_MycorrhizamediatedCompetitionBetweenPlantsDecomposers_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Averill%2C%20C.%20Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20Mycorrhiza-mediated%20competition%20between%20plants%20and%20decomposers%20drives%20soil%20carbon%20storage%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Averill%2C%20C.%20Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20Mycorrhiza-mediated%20competition%20between%20plants%20and%20decomposers%20drives%20soil%20carbon%20storage%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Averill%2C%20C.%20Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20Mycorrhiza-mediated%20competition%20between%20plants%20and%20decomposers%20drives%20soil%20carbon%20storage%202014)

[^22]: Zhu, Q., Riley, W. J., Tang, J. & Koven, C. D. Multiple soil nutrient competition between plants, microbes, and mineral surfaces: model development, parameterization, and example applications in several tropical forests. Biogeosciences 13, 341–363 (2016). [[Zhu_et+al_MultipleSoilNutrientCompetitionBetween_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.%20Koven%2C%20C.D.%20Multiple%20soil%20nutrient%20competition%20between%20plants%2C%20microbes%2C%20and%20mineral%20surfaces%3A%20model%20development%2C%20parameterization%2C%20and%20example%20applications%20in%20several%20tropical%20forests%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.%20Koven%2C%20C.D.%20Multiple%20soil%20nutrient%20competition%20between%20plants%2C%20microbes%2C%20and%20mineral%20surfaces%3A%20model%20development%2C%20parameterization%2C%20and%20example%20applications%20in%20several%20tropical%20forests%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.%20Koven%2C%20C.D.%20Multiple%20soil%20nutrient%20competition%20between%20plants%2C%20microbes%2C%20and%20mineral%20surfaces%3A%20model%20development%2C%20parameterization%2C%20and%20example%20applications%20in%20several%20tropical%20forests%202016)

[^23]: Zhu, Q., Riley, W. J. & Tang, J. Y. A new theory of plant-microbe nutrient competition resolves inconsistencies between observations and model predictions. Ecol. Appl. 27, 875–886 (2017). [[Zhu_et+al_TheoryPlantmicrobeNutrientCompetitionResolves_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20new%20theory%20of%20plant-microbe%20nutrient%20competition%20resolves%20inconsistencies%20between%20observations%20and%20model%20predictions%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20new%20theory%20of%20plant-microbe%20nutrient%20competition%20resolves%20inconsistencies%20between%20observations%20and%20model%20predictions%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhu%2C%20Q.%20Riley%2C%20W.J.%20Tang%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20new%20theory%20of%20plant-microbe%20nutrient%20competition%20resolves%20inconsistencies%20between%20observations%20and%20model%20predictions%202017)

[^24]: Dijkstra, F. A., Morgan, J. A., Blumenthal, D. & Follett, R. F. Water limitation and plant inter-specific competition reduce rhizosphere-induced C decomposition and plant N uptake. Soil Biol. Biochem. 42, 1073–1082 (2010). [[Dijkstra_et+al_WaterLimitationPlantInterspecificCompetition_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dijkstra%2C%20F.A.%20Morgan%2C%20J.A.%20Blumenthal%2C%20D.%20Follett%2C%20R.F.%20Water%20limitation%20and%20plant%20inter-specific%20competition%20reduce%20rhizosphere-induced%20C%20decomposition%20and%20plant%20N%20uptake%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dijkstra%2C%20F.A.%20Morgan%2C%20J.A.%20Blumenthal%2C%20D.%20Follett%2C%20R.F.%20Water%20limitation%20and%20plant%20inter-specific%20competition%20reduce%20rhizosphere-induced%20C%20decomposition%20and%20plant%20N%20uptake%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dijkstra%2C%20F.A.%20Morgan%2C%20J.A.%20Blumenthal%2C%20D.%20Follett%2C%20R.F.%20Water%20limitation%20and%20plant%20inter-specific%20competition%20reduce%20rhizosphere-induced%20C%20decomposition%20and%20plant%20N%20uptake%202010)

[^25]: Wieder, W. R. et al. Explicitly representing soil microbial processes in Earth system models. Glob. Change Biol. 29, 1782–1800 (2015). [[Wieder_ExplicitlyRepresentingSoilMicrobialProcesses_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wieder%2C%20W.R.%20Explicitly%20representing%20soil%20microbial%20processes%20in%20Earth%20system%20models%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wieder%2C%20W.R.%20Explicitly%20representing%20soil%20microbial%20processes%20in%20Earth%20system%20models%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wieder%2C%20W.R.%20Explicitly%20representing%20soil%20microbial%20processes%20in%20Earth%20system%20models%202015)

[^26]: Kaiser, C. et al. Exploring the transfer of recent plant photosynthates to soil microbes: mycorrhizal pathway vs direct root exudation. New Phytol. 205, 1537–1551 (2015). [[Kaiser_ExploringTransferRecentPlantPhotosynthates_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015)

[^27]: Leigh, J., Hodge, A. & Fitter, A. H. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plant from organic material. New Phytol. 181, 199–207 (2009). [[Leigh_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiTransferSubstantial_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009)

[^28]: Fellbaum, C. R. et al. Carbon availability triggers fungal nitrogen uptake and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 109, 2666–2671 (2012). [[Fellbaum_CarbonAvailabilityTriggersFungalNitrogen_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012)

[^29]: Kiers, E. T. et al. Reciprocal rewards stabilize cooperation in the mycorrhizal symbiosis. Science 333, 880–882 (2011). [[Kiers_ReciprocalRewardsStabilizeCooperationMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011)

[^30]: Leigh, J., Fitter, A. H. & Hodge, A. Growth and symbiotic effectiveness of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus in organic matter in competition with soil bacteria. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 76, 428–438 (2011). [[Leigh_et+al_GrowthSymbioticEffectivenessArbuscularMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011)

[^31]: Kohn, M. J. Carbon isotope compositions of terrestrial C3 plants as indicators of (paleo)ecology and (paleo)climate. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 107, 19691–19695 (2010). [[Kohn_CarbonIsotopeCompositionsTerrestrialC3_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kohn%2C%20M.J.%20Carbon%20isotope%20compositions%20of%20terrestrial%20C3%20plants%20as%20indicators%20of%20%28paleo%29ecology%20and%20%28paleo%29climate%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kohn%2C%20M.J.%20Carbon%20isotope%20compositions%20of%20terrestrial%20C3%20plants%20as%20indicators%20of%20%28paleo%29ecology%20and%20%28paleo%29climate%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kohn%2C%20M.J.%20Carbon%20isotope%20compositions%20of%20terrestrial%20C3%20plants%20as%20indicators%20of%20%28paleo%29ecology%20and%20%28paleo%29climate%202010)

[^32]: Herman, D. J., Firestone, M. K., Nuccio, E. & Hodge, A. Interactions between an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and a soil microbial community mediating litter decomposition. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 80, 236–247 (2012). [[Herman_et+al_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungus_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012)

[^33]: Atul-Nayyar, A., Hamel, C., Hanson, K. & Germida, J. The arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis links N mineralization to plant demand. Mycorrhiza 19, 239–246 (2009). [[Atul-Nayyar_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisLinksN_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Atul-Nayyar%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hanson%2C%20K.%20Germida%2C%20J.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20links%20N%20mineralization%20to%20plant%20demand%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Atul-Nayyar%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hanson%2C%20K.%20Germida%2C%20J.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20links%20N%20mineralization%20to%20plant%20demand%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Atul-Nayyar%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hanson%2C%20K.%20Germida%2C%20J.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20links%20N%20mineralization%20to%20plant%20demand%202009)

[^34]: Galloway, J. N. et al. Nitrogen cycles: past, present, and future. Biogeochemistry 70, 153–226 (2004). [[Galloway_NitrogenCyclesPastPresentFuture_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Nitrogen%20cycles%3A%20past%2C%20present%2C%20and%20future%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Nitrogen%20cycles%3A%20past%2C%20present%2C%20and%20future%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Nitrogen%20cycles%3A%20past%2C%20present%2C%20and%20future%202004)

[^35]: Shi, M., Fisher, J. B., Brzostek, E. R. & Phillips, R. P. Carbon cost of plant nitrogen acquisition: global carbon cycle impact from an improved plant nitrogen cycle in the Community Land Model. Glob. Change Biol. 22, 1299–1314 (2016). [[Shi_et+al_CarbonCostPlantNitrogenAcquisition_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shi%2C%20M.%20Fisher%2C%20J.B.%20Brzostek%2C%20E.R.%20Phillips%2C%20R.P.%20Carbon%20cost%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20acquisition%3A%20global%20carbon%20cycle%20impact%20from%20an%20improved%20plant%20nitrogen%20cycle%20in%20the%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shi%2C%20M.%20Fisher%2C%20J.B.%20Brzostek%2C%20E.R.%20Phillips%2C%20R.P.%20Carbon%20cost%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20acquisition%3A%20global%20carbon%20cycle%20impact%20from%20an%20improved%20plant%20nitrogen%20cycle%20in%20the%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shi%2C%20M.%20Fisher%2C%20J.B.%20Brzostek%2C%20E.R.%20Phillips%2C%20R.P.%20Carbon%20cost%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20acquisition%3A%20global%20carbon%20cycle%20impact%20from%20an%20improved%20plant%20nitrogen%20cycle%20in%20the%202016)

[^36]: Norby, R. J., Warren, J. M., Iversen, C. M., Medlyn, B. E. & McMurtrie, R. E. CO2 enhancement of forest productivity constrained by limited nitrogen availability. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 107, 19368–19373 (2010). [[Norby_et+al_Co2EnhancementForestProductivityConstrained_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Norby%2C%20R.J.%20Warren%2C%20J.M.%20Iversen%2C%20C.M.%20Medlyn%2C%20B.E.%20CO2%20enhancement%20of%20forest%20productivity%20constrained%20by%20limited%20nitrogen%20availability%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Norby%2C%20R.J.%20Warren%2C%20J.M.%20Iversen%2C%20C.M.%20Medlyn%2C%20B.E.%20CO2%20enhancement%20of%20forest%20productivity%20constrained%20by%20limited%20nitrogen%20availability%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Norby%2C%20R.J.%20Warren%2C%20J.M.%20Iversen%2C%20C.M.%20Medlyn%2C%20B.E.%20CO2%20enhancement%20of%20forest%20productivity%20constrained%20by%20limited%20nitrogen%20availability%202010)

[^37]: Reich, P. B. et al. Nitrogen limitation constrains sustainability of ecosystem response to CO2. Nature 440, 922–925 (2006). [[Reich_NitrogenLimitationConstrainsSustainabilityEcosystem_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reich%2C%20P.B.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20constrains%20sustainability%20of%20ecosystem%20response%20to%20CO2%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reich%2C%20P.B.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20constrains%20sustainability%20of%20ecosystem%20response%20to%20CO2%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reich%2C%20P.B.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20constrains%20sustainability%20of%20ecosystem%20response%20to%20CO2%202006)

[^38]: Hong, J. J. et al. Diversity of morphology and function in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbioses in Brachypodium distachyon. Planta 236, 851–865 (2012). [[Hong_DiversityMorphologyFunctionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hong%2C%20J.J.%20Diversity%20of%20morphology%20and%20function%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20Brachypodium%20distachyon%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hong%2C%20J.J.%20Diversity%20of%20morphology%20and%20function%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20Brachypodium%20distachyon%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hong%2C%20J.J.%20Diversity%20of%20morphology%20and%20function%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20Brachypodium%20distachyon%202012)

[^39]: Frostegard, A., Tunlid, A. & Baath, E. Microbial biomass measured as total lipid phosphate in siols of different organic content. J. Microbiol. Meth. 14, 151–163 (1991). [[Frostegard_et+al_MicrobialBiomassMeasuredTotalLipid_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Frostegard%2C%20A.%20Tunlid%2C%20A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Microbial%20biomass%20measured%20as%20total%20lipid%20phosphate%20in%20siols%20of%20different%20organic%20content%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frostegard%2C%20A.%20Tunlid%2C%20A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Microbial%20biomass%20measured%20as%20total%20lipid%20phosphate%20in%20siols%20of%20different%20organic%20content%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Frostegard%2C%20A.%20Tunlid%2C%20A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Microbial%20biomass%20measured%20as%20total%20lipid%20phosphate%20in%20siols%20of%20different%20organic%20content%201991)

[^40]: Contosta, A. R., Frey, S. D. & Cooper, A. B. Soil microbial communities vary as much over time as with chronic warming and nitrogen additions. Soil Biol. Biochem. 88, 19–24 (2015). [[Contosta_et+al_SoilMicrobialCommunitiesVaryMuch_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Contosta%2C%20A.R.%20Frey%2C%20S.D.%20Cooper%2C%20A.B.%20Soil%20microbial%20communities%20vary%20as%20much%20over%20time%20as%20with%20chronic%20warming%20and%20nitrogen%20additions%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Contosta%2C%20A.R.%20Frey%2C%20S.D.%20Cooper%2C%20A.B.%20Soil%20microbial%20communities%20vary%20as%20much%20over%20time%20as%20with%20chronic%20warming%20and%20nitrogen%20additions%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Contosta%2C%20A.R.%20Frey%2C%20S.D.%20Cooper%2C%20A.B.%20Soil%20microbial%20communities%20vary%20as%20much%20over%20time%20as%20with%20chronic%20warming%20and%20nitrogen%20additions%202015)

[^41]: Olsson, P. A., Thingstrup, I., Jakobsen, I. & Baath, E. Estimation of the biomass of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in a linseed field. Soil Biol. Biochem. 31, 1879–1887 (1999). [[Olsson_et+al_EstimationBiomassArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Thingstrup%2C%20I.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20biomass%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20linseed%20field%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Thingstrup%2C%20I.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20biomass%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20linseed%20field%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Thingstrup%2C%20I.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20biomass%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20linseed%20field%201999)

[^42]: Kopittke, P. M. et al. Nitrogen-rich microbial products provide new organomineral associations for the stabilization of soil organic matter. Glob. Change Biol. 24, 1761–1770 (2018). [[Kopittke_NitrogenrichMicrobialProductsProvideOrganomineral_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kopittke%2C%20P.M.%20Nitrogen-rich%20microbial%20products%20provide%20new%20organomineral%20associations%20for%20the%20stabilization%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kopittke%2C%20P.M.%20Nitrogen-rich%20microbial%20products%20provide%20new%20organomineral%20associations%20for%20the%20stabilization%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kopittke%2C%20P.M.%20Nitrogen-rich%20microbial%20products%20provide%20new%20organomineral%20associations%20for%20the%20stabilization%20of%20soil%20organic%20matter%202018)

[^43]: R Development Core Team. R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing http://www.R-project.org/. (2011) [[Team_LanguageEnvironment_2011]] [OA](http://www.R-project.org/)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Team%2C%20R.Development%20Core%20R%3A%20A%20Language%20and%20Environment%20for%202011)

[^44]: Hestrin, R., Hammer E. C., Mueller, C. W. & Lehmann, J. Data from: synergies between myccorhizal fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant nitrogen acquisition. eCommons https://doi.org/10.7298/9d57-5029 (2019).  [[Hestrin_et+al_DataFromSynergiesBetweenMyccorhizal_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.7298/9d57-5029)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.7298/9d57-5029)

