[[Saito_RoleCellWallPolyphosphatesPhosphorus_2021]]

# [Role of Cell Wall Polyphosphates in Phosphorus Transfer at the Arbuscular Interface in Mycorrhizas](https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2021.725939)

## [[Cuc Thi Nguyen; Katsuharu Saito]]

### 2021

## Abstract
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi provide plants with soil mineral nutrients, particularly phosphorus. In this symbiotic association, ==the arbuscular interface is the main site for nutrient exchange==. To understand phosphorus transfer at the interface, we analyzed the subcellular localization of polyphosphate (polyP) in mature arbuscules of Rhizophagus irregularis colonizing roots of Lotus japonicus wild-type (WT) and H+-ATPase ha1-1 mutant, ==which is defective in phosphorus acquisition through the mycorrhizal pathway==. In both, the WT and the ha1-1 mutant, polyP accumulated in the cell walls of trunk hyphae and inside fine branch modules close to the trunk hyphae. However, ==many fine branches lacked polyP. In the mutant, most fine branch modules showed polyP signals compared to the== WT. Notably, polyP was also observed in the cell walls of some fine branches formed in the ha1-1 mutant, indicating phosphorus release from fungal cells to the apoplastic regions. Intense acid phosphatase (ACP) activity was detected in the periarbuscular spaces around the fine branches. Furthermore, double staining of ACP activity and polyP revealed that these had contrasting distribution patterns in arbuscules. ==These observations suggest that polyP in fungal cell walls== and ==apoplastic phosphatases may play an important role in phosphorus transfer at the symbiotic interface== in arbuscules.

## Key concepts
#claim/arbuscule; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #method/acid_phosphatase; #claim/cell_wall; #result/polyphosphate; #claim/symbiosis; #method/distilled_water; #lotus_japonicus; #method/phosphate_buffered_saline; #claim/metabolism; #method/transmission_electron_microscopy; #alkaline_phosphatase; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #method/tris_buffered_saline; #glomus; #dynamics; #arbuscular_mycorrhizas; #method/bovine_serum_albumin; #alkaline; #method/wheat_germ_agglutinin; #method/rhizophagus_irregularis; #escherichia_coli

## Quote
> We propose a hypothesis for P transfer at arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus-host interface in which polyP is released into the cell walls of fine branches and immediately subjected to hydrolysis by acid phosphatase located in the periarbuscular space


## Key points
- Phosphorus is a crucial element for plant growth and development
- To determine whether the HA1 mutation affects P acquisition via the mycorrhizal pathway, we examined the P nutrition of the ha1-1 mutant using a two-compartment system consisting of RHC and HC (Figure 1D)
- Since intense acid phosphatase (ACP) activities were found in periarbuscular space (PAS) around fine branches, the absence of polyP in the fine branch cell walls could be explained by the degradation of polyP in fungal cell walls by apoplastic ACP
- We propose a hypothesis for P transfer at arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus-host interface in which polyP is released into the cell walls of fine branches and immediately subjected to hydrolysis by ACP located in the PAS
- The liberated Pi is delivered to host cells by symbiotic Pi transporters driven by the H+ gradient generated across the periarbuscular membrane (PAM) by the HA1 H+-ATPase ([^Javot_et+al_2007_a]; [^Yang_et+al_2012_a]; Willmann et al, 2013; [^Xie_et+al_2013_a]; [^Krajinski_et+al_2014_a]; Wang et al, 2014; [^Watts-Williams_et+al_2015_a]; [^Liu_et+al_2020_a])
- Because the mechanism of polyP release into the fungal cell wall is unknown and it remains unclear whether the apoplastic ACP can catalyze polyP hydrolysis, we cannot rule out the possibility that polyP is hydrolyzed in AM fungal hyphae and the liberated Pi is exported to the PAS via an unidentified Pi exporter

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Phosphorus is a crucial element for plant growth and development.
Terrestrial plants absorb P as orthophosphate (Pi) from the soil solution.
Soil Pi is mainly present in immobile forms that are not directly available to plants ([^Pierzynski_et+al_2005_a]).
Host plants can acquire soil Pi via two pathways, the mycorrhizal pathway and the direct pathway.
The mycorrhizal pathway is a route via AM fungal hyphae ([^Smith_et+al_2003_a]</a>, [^Smith_et+al_2011_a]).
Pi is directly taken up by plant roots.
The mycorrhizal pathway is usually activated even in non-responsive AM plants, for which AM fungal colonization does not positively affect growth or P nutrition ([^Smith_et+al_2003_a]</a>, 2004).

### Methods
The L. japonicus homozygous ha mutant line with a LORE1 insertion in the HA1 gene and the wild-type (WT) segregant were selected from a heterozygous LORE1 insertion line that was obtained from Lotus Base..
A two-compartment culture system consisting of root-hyphal (RHC) and hyphal (HC) compartments was used to cultivate plants (Figure 1).
The two compartments were separated by a threelayered barrier ([^Kobae_et+al_2014_a]) comprising an RHC filter (57 μM opening), a medial mesh (1 mM in thickness; 2 mM opening), and an HC filter (32 μM opening), which prevented plant roots from passing through but allowed AM fungal hyphae to pass.
The inoculated and non-inoculated plants were grown in a growth chamber for 4 weeks.
RHC was supplied with a half-strength Hoagland’s solution containing a low concentration of KH2PO4 (100 μM)

### Results
The authors investigated the effect of the mutation of HA1 on P acquisition through the mycorrhizal pathway.
A L. japonicus homozygous line carrying a LORE1 insertion in exon 8 of the HA1 gene was selected to obtain a ha mutant, ha (Figure 1A).
To determine whether the HA1 mutation affects P acquisition via the mycorrhizal pathway, the authors examined the P nutrition of the ha mutant using a two-compartment system consisting of RHC and HC (Figure 1D).
The positive effects on shoot P content were lower in the ha mutant than in the WT.
These data demonstrate that P transfer from the AM fungus to the host via the mycorrhizal pathway was partially impaired in the ha mutant.

### Conclusion
P transfer across the symbiotic interface is an important process in the mycorrhizal pathway.
Since intense ACP activities were found in PAS around fine branches, the absence of polyP in the fine branch cell walls could be explained by the degradation of polyP in fungal cell walls by apoplastic ACP
Supporting this idea, the ha mutant, in which the mycorrhizal pathway was partially suppressed, showed polyP localization in some cell walls of the fine branches.
The authors propose a hypothesis for P transfer at AM fungus-host interface in which polyP is released into the cell walls of fine branches and immediately subjected to hydrolysis by ACP located in the PAS.
Because the mechanism of polyP release into the fungal cell wall is unknown and it remains unclear whether the apoplastic ACP can catalyze polyP hydrolysis, the authors cannot rule out the possibility that polyP is hydrolyzed in AM fungal hyphae and the liberated Pi is exported to the PAS via an unidentified Pi exporter


## Study subjects

### 35 purple ACP genes
- Several AM-inducible phosphatase genes are candidates for encoding ACPs present in PAS. ==In soybean, two out of 35 purple ACP genes are upregulated in AM roots ([^Li_et+al_2012_a])==. The AM-inducible soybean purple ACP gene, GmPAP33, is expressed in arbuscule-containing cortical cells and is involved in arbuscule degeneration via phospholipid hydrolysis ([^Li_et+al_2019_a])

## Data analysis
- #method/fishers_exact_test
- #method/pearson
- #method/kolmogorov_smirnov_test
- #method/t_test
- #method/tukeys_hsd_test

## Findings
- The positive effects on shoot P content were lower in the ha1-1 mutant (average increase of 268%) than in the WT (average increase of 492%)

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- NTP activity localization was ==similar to ACP activity with signals along the PAM and in small vesicles present in the PAS surrounding fine branches (Figure 7), as previously reported ([^Jeanmaire_et+al_1985_a]). To further study the relationship between phosphatase activity and polyP accumulation, we detected phosphatase activity and polyP signals simultaneously by enzyme cytochemistry using the ELF97 phosphatase substrate and DAPI staining==, respectively

## Future work
- To further study the relationship between phosphatase activity and polyP accumulation, we detected phosphatase activity and polyP signals simultaneously by enzyme cytochemistry using the ELF97 phosphatase substrate and DAPI staining, respectively. ELF97 forms fine precipitates after hydrolysis of its phosphate ester bond by non-specific phosphatases, emitting yellow-green fluorescence at the site of phosphatase activity ([^Haugland_2005_a]). ACP and NTP activities were visualized in a typical mature arbuscule by single ELF97 staining in WT and ha1-1 roots, respectively (Figure 8A). In the WT, ACP activity was present throughout the arbuscule but was excluded from its central region. NTP activity was detected in arbuscules in the mutant but the central region without phosphatase activity was larger than that in the WT. We performed double labeling of phosphatase activity and polyP. The localization of phosphatase activity (green) and polyP (yellow) was distinct based on different emission colors using a long-pass filter, albeit showing weak and different color signals compared to the single staining (Figure 8B). Double labeling showed that polyP was present in the center of arbuscules, and phosphatase.
- The yeast VTC2, a subunit of VTC complexes, is observed at the cell periphery along the plasma membrane under high Pi conditions, it is localized in vacuoles in a low-Pi medium ([^Hothorn_et+al_2009_a]). How polyP is released across the fungal plasma membrane and the role of cell wall polyP in fungal physiology are important questions to be explored in future studies.
- Further research, including mutant analysis, is needed to clarify whether these purple ACPs are responsible for ACP activity in PAS.

## Data and code
- DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT SUPPLEMENTARY  MATERIAL The original contributions presented in the study are included in the article/Supplementary Material, further inquiries can be directed to the corresponding author. The Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2021.725939/full#supplementary-material
- Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2021.725939/full#supplementary-material


## References
[^Aono_et+al_2004_a]: Aono, T., Maldonado-Mendoza, I. E., Dewbre, G. R., Harrison, M. J., and Saito, M. (2004). Expression of alkaline phosphatase genes in arbuscular mycorrhizas. New Phytol. 162, 525–534. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01041.x [[Aono_et+al_ExpressionAlkalinePhosphataseGenesArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01041.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01041.x)

[^Arpat_et+al_2012_a]: Arpat, A. B., Magliano, P., Wege, S., Rouached, H., Stefanovic, A., and Poirier, Y. (2012). Functional expression of PHO1 to the Golgi and trans-Golgi network and its role in export of inorganic phosphate. Plant J. 71, 479–491. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2012.05004.x [[Arpat_et+al_FunctionalExpressionPho1GolgiTransgolgi_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2012.05004.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2012.05004.x)

[^Balestrini_et+al_2007_a]: Balestrini, R., Gómez-Ariza, J., Lanfranco, L., and Bonfante, P. (2007). Laser microdissection reveals that transcripts for five plant and one fungal phosphate transporter genes are contemporaneously present in arbusculated cells. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 20, 1055–1062. doi: 10.1094/MPMI-20-9-1055 [[Balestrini_et+al_LaserMicrodissectionRevealsThatTranscripts_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1094/MPMI-20-9-1055)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1094/MPMI-20-9-1055)

[^Benedetto_et+al_2005_a]: Benedetto, A., Magurno, F., Bonfante, P., and Lanfranco, L. (2005). Expression profiles of a phosphate transporter gene (GmosPT) from the endomycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae. Mycorrhiza 15, 620–627. doi: 10.1007/ s00572-005-0006-9 [[Benedetto_et+al_ExpressionProfilesPhosphateTransporterGene_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-005-0006-9)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-005-0006-9)

[^Chiu_2019_a]: Chiu, C. H., and Paszkowski, U. (2019). Mechanisms and impact of symbiotic phosphate acquisition. Cold Spring Harb. Perspect. Biol. 11:a034603. doi: 10.1101/cshperspect.a034603 [[Chiu_MechanismsImpactSymbioticPhosphateAcquisition_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a034603)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1101/cshperspect.a034603)

[^Delaux_et+al_2015_a]: Delaux, P.-M., Radhakrishnan, G. V., Jayaraman, D., Cheema, J., Malbreil, M., Volkening, J. D., et al. (2015). Algal ancestor of land plants was preadapted for symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 112, 13390–13395. doi: 10.1073/ pnas.1515426112 Dreyer, B., Pérez-Gilabert, M., Olmos, E., Honrubia, M., and Mort, A. (2008). Ultrastructural localization of acid phosphatase in arbusculate coils of mycorrhizal Phoenix canariensis roots. Physiol. Plant. 132, 503–513. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-3054.2007.01034.x [[Delaux_et+al_AlgalAncestorLandPlantsPreadapted_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1515426112)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1073/pnas.1515426112)

[^Dreyer_et+al_2018_a]: Dreyer, I., Spitz, O., Kanonenberg, K., Montag, K., Handrich, M., Ahmad, S., et al. (2018). Nutrient exchange in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis from a thermodynamic point of view. New Phytol. 222, 1043–1053. doi: 10.1111/nph.15646 [[Dreyer_et+al_NutrientExchangeArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.15646)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.15646)

[^Ezawa_et+al_2004_a]: Ezawa, T., Cavagnaro, T. R., Smith, S. E., Smith, F. A., and Ohtomo, R. (2004). Rapid accumulation of polyphosphate in extraradical hyphae of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus as revealed by histochemistry and a polyphosphate kinase/luciferase system. New Phytol. 161, 387–392. doi: 10.1046/j. 1469-8137.2003.00966.x Ezawa, T., Hayatsu, M., and Saito, M. (2005). A new hypothesis on the strategy for acquisition of phosphorus in arbuscular mycorrhiza: up-regulation of secreted acid phosphatase gene in the host plant. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 18, 1046–1053. doi: 10.1094/MPMI-18-1046 [[Ezawa_et+al_RapidAccumulationPolyphosphateExtraradicalHyphae_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2003.00966.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2003.00966.x)

[^Ezawa_et+al_1999_a]: Ezawa, T., Kuwahara, S., Sakamoto, K., Yoshida, T., and Saito, M. (1999). Specific inhibitor and substrate specificity of alkaline phosphatase expressed in the symbiotic phase of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus etunicatum. Mycologia 91, 636–641. doi: 10.1080/00275514.1999.12061062 [[Ezawa_et+al_SpecificInhibitorSubstrateSpecificityAlkaline_1999]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1080/00275514.1999.12061062)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1080/00275514.1999.12061062)

[^Ezawa_2018_a]: Ezawa, T., and Saito, K. (2018). How do arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi handle phosphate? New insights into fine-tuning of phosphate metabolism. New Phytol. 220, 1116–1121. doi: 10.1111/nph.15187 [[Ezawa_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiHandlePhosphate_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.15187)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.15187)

[^Ezawa_1994_a]: Ezawa, T., and Yoshida, T. (1994). Characterization of phosphatase in marigold roots infected with vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 40, 255–264. doi: 10.1080/00380768.1994.10413299 [[Ezawa_CharacterizationPhosphataseMarigoldRootsInfected_1994]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1080/00380768.1994.10413299)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1080/00380768.1994.10413299)

[^Field_2018_a]: Field, K. J., and Pressel, S. (2018). Unity in diversity: structural and functional insights into the ancient partnerships between plants and fungi. New Phytol. 220, 996–1011. doi: 10.1111/nph.15158 [[Field_UnityDiversityStructuralFunctionalInsights_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.15158)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.15158)

[^Fiorilli_et+al_2013_a]: Fiorilli, V., Lanfranco, L., and Bonfante, P. (2013). The expression of GintPT, the phosphate transporter of Rhizophagus irregularis, depends on the symbiotic status and phosphate availability. Planta 237, 1267–1277. doi: 10.1007/ s00425-013-1842-z [[Fiorilli_et+al_ExpressionGintptPhosphateTransporterRhizophagus_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00425-013-1842-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00425-013-1842-z)

[^Fukai_et+al_2012_a]: Fukai, E., Soyano, T., Umehara, Y., Nakayama, S., Hirakawa, H., Tabata, S., et al. (2012). Establishment of a Lotus japonicus gene tagging population using the exon-targeting endogenous retrotransposon LORE1. Plant J. 69, 720–730. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04826.x [[Fukai_et+al_EstablishmentLotusJaponicusGeneTagging_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04826.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04826.x)

[^Funamoto_et+al_2007_a]: Funamoto, R., Saito, K., Oyaizu, H., Saito, M., and Aono, T. (2007). Simultaneous in situ detection of alkaline phosphatase activity and polyphosphate in arbuscules within arbuscular mycorrhizal roots. Funct. Plant Biol. 34, 803– 810. doi: 10.1071/FP06326 [[Funamoto_et+al_SimultaneousSituDetectionAlkalinePhosphatase_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1071/FP06326)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1071/FP06326)

[^Gianinazzi-Pearson_1978_a]: Gianinazzi-Pearson, V., and Gianinazzi, S. (1978). Enzymatic studies on the metabolism of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza II. Soluble alkaline phosphatase specific to mycorrhizal infection in onion roots. Physiol. Plant Pathol. 12, 45–53. doi: 10.1016/0048-4059(78)90017-6 [[Gianinazzi-Pearson_EnzymaticStudiesMetabolismVesiculararbuscularMycorrhiza_1978]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/0048-4059(78)90017-6)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/0048-4059(78)90017-6)

[^Gianinazzi-Pearson_et+al_1991_a]: Gianinazzi-Pearson, V., Smith, S. E., Gianinazzi, S., and Smith, F. A. (1991). Enzymatic studies on the metabolism of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizas. V. Is H+-ATPase a componenet of ATP-hydrolysing enzyme activities in plant-fungus interfaces? New Phytol. 117, 61–74. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991. tb00945.x [[Gianinazzi-Pearson_et+al_EnzymaticStudiesMetabolismVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizas_1991]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb00945.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1991.tb00945.x)

[^Giovannini_et+al_2013_a]: Giovannini, D., Touhami, J., Charnet, P., Sitbon, M., and Battini, J.-L. (2013). Inorganic phosphate export by the retrovirus receptor XPR1 in metazoans. Cell Rep. 3, 1866–1873. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2013.05.035 [[Giovannini_et+al_InorganicPhosphateExportRetrovirusReceptor_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.celrep.2013.05.035)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.celrep.2013.05.035)

[^Glassop_et+al_2005_a]: Glassop, D., Smith, S. E., and Smith, F. W. (2005). Cereal phosphate transporters associated with the mycorrhizal pathway of phosphate uptake into roots. Planta 222, 688–698. doi: 10.1007/s00425-005-0015-0 [[Glassop_et+al_CerealPhosphateTransportersAssociatedWith_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00425-005-0015-0)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00425-005-0015-0)

[^Guether_et+al_2009_a]: Guether, M., Balestrini, R., Hannah, M., He, J., Udvardi, M. K., and Bonfante, P. (2009a). Genome-wide reprogramming of regulatory networks, transport, cell wall and membrane biogenesis during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis in Lotus japonicus. New Phytol. 182, 200–212. doi: 10.1111/j.14698137.2008.02725.x [[Guether_et+al_GenomewideReprogrammingRegulatoryNetworksTransport_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.14698137.2008.02725.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.14698137.2008.02725.x)

[^Guether_et+al_2009_b]: Guether, M., Neuhäuser, B., Balestrini, R., Dynowski, M., Ludewig, U., and Bonfante, P. (2009b). A mycorrhizal-specific ammonium transporter from Lotus japonicus acquires nitrogen released by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Physiol. 150, 73–83. doi: 10.1104/pp.109.136390 [[Guether_et+al_MycorrhizalspecificAmmoniumTransporterFromLotus_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.109.136390)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1104/pp.109.136390)

[^Guttenberger_2000_a]: Guttenberger, M. (2000). Arbuscules of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inhabit an acidic compartment within plant roots. Planta 211, 299–304. doi: 10.1007/s004250000324 [[Guttenberger_ArbusculesVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalFungiInhabit_2000]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s004250000324)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s004250000324)

[^Harrison_1999_a]: Harrison, M. J. (1999). Molecular and cellular aspects of the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. Plant Mol. Biol. 50, 361–389. doi: 10.1146/ annurev.arplant.50.1.361 [[Harrison_MolecularCellularAspectsArbuscularMycorrhizal_1999]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.arplant.50.1.361)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1146/annurev.arplant.50.1.361)

[^Harrison_et+al_2002_a]: Harrison, M. J., Dewbre, G. R., and Liu, J. Y. (2002). A phosphate transporter from Medicago truncatula involved in the acquisition of phosphate released by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Cell 14, 2413–2429. doi: 10.1105/ tpc.004861 [[Harrison_et+al_PhosphateTransporterFromMedicagoTruncatula_2002]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1105/tpc.004861)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1105/tpc.004861)

[^Harrison_1995_a]: Harrison, M. J., and Van Buuren, M. L. (1995). A phosphate transporter from the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme. Nature 378, 626–629. doi: 10.1038/378626a0 [[Harrison_PhosphateTransporterFromMycorrhizalFungus_1995]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/378626a0)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/378626a0)

[^Haugland_2005_a]: Haugland, R.P. (ed.). (2005). The Handbook - A Guide to Fluorescent Probes and Labeling Technologies. USA: Invitrogen. [[Haugland_HandbookAGuideFluorescent_2005]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Haugland%2C%20R.P.%20The%20Handbook%20-%20A%20Guide%20to%20Fluorescent%20Probes%20and%20Labeling%20Technologies%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Haugland%2C%20R.P.%20The%20Handbook%20-%20A%20Guide%20to%20Fluorescent%20Probes%20and%20Labeling%20Technologies%202005) 

[^Hijikata_et+al_2010_a]: Hijikata, N., Murase, M., Tani, C., Ohtomo, R., Osaki, M., and Ezawa, T. (2010). Polyphosphate has a central role in the rapid and massive accumulation of phosphorus in extraradical mycelium of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 186, 285–289. doi: 10.1111/j. 1469-8137.2009.03168.x [[Hijikata_et+al_PolyphosphateCentralRoleRapidMassive_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.03168.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.03168.x)

[^Hothorn_et+al_2009_a]: Hothorn, M., Neumann, H., Lenherr, E. D., Wehner, M., Rybin, V., Hassa, P. O., et al. (2009). Catalytic core of a membrane-associated eukaryotic polyphosphate polymerase. Science 324, 513–516. doi: 10.1126/ science.1168120 [[Hothorn_et+al_CatalyticCoreMembraneassociatedEukaryoticPolyphosphate_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1168120)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1126/science.1168120)

[^Huang_et+al_2018_a]: Huang, R., Wan, B., Hultz, M., Diaz, J. M., and Tang, Y. (2018). Phosphatasemediated hydrolysis of linear polyphosphates. Environ. Sci. Technol. 52, 1183–1190. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.7b04553 [[Huang_et+al_PhosphatasemediatedHydrolysisLinearPolyphosphates_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.7b04553)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1021/acs.est.7b04553)

[^Ivanov_et+al_2019_a]: Ivanov, S., Austin, J., Berg, R. H., and Harrison, M. J. (2019). Extensive membrane systems at the host-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus interface. Nat. Plants 5, 194–203. doi: 10.1038/s41477-019-0364-5 [[Ivanov_et+al_ExtensiveMembraneSystemsHostarbuscularMycorrhizal_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41477-019-0364-5)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/s41477-019-0364-5)

[^Javot_et+al_2007_a]: Javot, H., Penmetsa, R. V., Terzaghi, N., Cook, D. R., and Harrison, M. J. (2007). A Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter indispensable for the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 104, 1720–1725. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0608136104 [[Javot_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaPhosphateTransporterIndispensable_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0608136104)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1073/pnas.0608136104)

[^Jeanmaire_et+al_1985_a]: Jeanmaire, C., Dexheimer, J., Marx, C., Gianinazzi, S., and Gianinazzipearson, V. (1985). Effect of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal infection on the distribution of neutral phosphatase activities in root cortical cells. J. Plant Physiol. 119, 285–293. doi: 10.1016/S0176-1617(85)80095-X [[Jeanmaire_et+al_EffectVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalInfectionDistribution_1985]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0176-1617(85)80095-X)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/S0176-1617(85)80095-X)

[^Kikuchi_et+al_2016_a]: Kikuchi, Y., Hijikata, N., Ohtomo, R., Handa, Y., Kawaguchi, M., Saito, K., et al. (2016). Aquaporin-mediated long-distance polyphosphate translocation directed towards the host in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: application of virusinduced gene silencing. New Phytol. 211, 1202–1208. doi: 10.1111/nph.14016 [[Kikuchi_et+al_AquaporinmediatedLongdistancePolyphosphateTranslocationDirected_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.14016)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.14016)

[^Kikuchi_et+al_2014_a]: Kikuchi, Y., Hijikata, N., Yokoyama, K., Ohtomo, R., Handa, Y., Kawaguchi, M., et al. (2014). Polyphosphate accumulation is driven by transcriptome alterations that lead to near-synchronous and near-equivalent uptake of inorganic cations in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 204, 638–649. doi: 10.1111/ nph.12937 [[Kikuchi_et+al_PolyphosphateAccumulationDrivenTranscriptomeAlterations_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.12937)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.12937)

[^Kobae_2010_a]: Kobae, Y., and Hata, S. (2010). Dynamics of periarbuscular membranes visualized with a fluorescent phosphate transporter in arbuscular mycorrhizal roots of rice. Plant Cell Physiol. 51, 341–353. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcq013 [[Kobae_DynamicsPeriarbuscularMembranesVisualizedWith_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcq013)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/pcp/pcq013)

[^Kobae_et+al_2015_a]: Kobae, Y., Kawachi, M., Saito, K., Kikuchi, Y., Ezawa, T., Maeshima, M., et al. (2015). Up-regulation of genes involved in N-acetylglucosamine uptake and metabolism suggests a recycling mode of chitin in intraradical mycelium of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Mycorrhiza 25, 411–417. doi: 10.1007/ s00572-014-0623-2 [[Kobae_et+al_regulationGenesInvolvedNacetylglucosamineUptake_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-014-0623-2)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-014-0623-2)

[^Kobae_et+al_2014_a]: Kobae, Y., Tomioka, R., Tanoi, K., Kobayashi, N. I., Ohmori, Y., Nishida, S., et al. (2014). Selective induction of putative iron transporters, OPT8a and OPT8b, in maize by mycorrhizal colonization. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 60, 843–847. doi: 10.1080/00380768.2014.949854 [[Kobae_et+al_SelectiveInductionPutativeIronTransporters_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1080/00380768.2014.949854)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1080/00380768.2014.949854)

[^Kojima_et+al_1998_a]: Kojima, T., Hayatsu, M., and Saito, M. (1998). Intraradical hyphae phosphatase of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Gigaspora margarita. Biol. Fertil. Soils 26, 331–335. doi: 10.1007/s003740050384 [[Kojima_et+al_IntraradicalHyphaePhosphataseArbuscularMycorrhizal_1998]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s003740050384)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s003740050384)

[^Kojima_et+al_2014_a]: Kojima, T., Saito, K., Oba, H., Yoshida, Y., Terasawa, J., Umehara, Y., et al. (2014). Isolation and phenotypic characterization of Lotus japonicus mutants specifically defective in arbuscular mycorrhizal formation. Plant Cell Physiol. 55, 928–941. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcu024 [[Kojima_et+al_IsolationPhenotypicCharacterizationLotusJaponicus_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcu024)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/pcp/pcu024)

[^Krajinski_et+al_2014_a]: Krajinski, F., Courty, P.-E., Sieh, D., Franken, P., Zhang, H., Bucher, M., et al. (2014). The H+-ATPase HA1 of Medicago truncatula is essential for phosphate transport and plant growth during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Cell 26, 1808–1817. doi: 10.1105/tpc.113.120436 [[Krajinski_et+al_HatpaseHa1MedicagoTruncatulaEssential_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1105/tpc.113.120436)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1105/tpc.113.120436)

[^Kuga_et+al_2008_a]: Kuga, Y., Saito, K., Nayuki, K., Peterson, R. L., and Saito, M. (2008). Ultrastructure of rapidly-frozen and freeze-substituted germ tubes of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and localization of polyphosphate. New Phytol. 178, 189–200. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02345.x [[Kuga_et+al_UltrastructureRapidlyfrozenFreezesubstitutedGermTubes_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02345.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02345.x)

[^Li_et+al_2012_a]: Li, C., Gui, S., Yang, T., Walk, T., Wang, X., and Liao, H. (2012). Identification of soybean purple acid phosphatase genes and their expression responses to phosphorus availability and symbiosis. Ann. Bot. 109, 275–285. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcr246 [[Li_et+al_IdentificationSoybeanPurpleAcidPhosphatase_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcr246)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/aob/mcr246)

[^Li_et+al_2019_a]: Li, C., Zhou, J., Wang, X., and Liao, H. (2019). A purple acid phosphatase, GmPAP33, participates in arbuscule degeneration during AM symbiosis in soybean. Plant Cell Environ. 42, 2015–2027. doi: 10.1111/pce.13530 [[Li_et+al_PurpleAcidPhosphataseGmpap33Participates_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/pce.13530)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/pce.13530)

[^Liu_et+al_2020_a]: Liu, J., Chen, J., Xie, K., Tian, Y., Yan, A., Liu, J., et al. (2020). A mycorrhizaspecific H+-ATPase is essential for arbuscule development and symbiotic phosphate and nitrogen uptake. Plant Cell Environ. 43, 1069–1083. doi: 10.1111/pce.13714 [[Liu_et+al_MycorrhizaspecificHatpaseEssentialArbusculeDevelopment_2020]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/pce.13714)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/pce.13714)

[^Liu_et+al_2013_a]: Liu, Q., Parsons, A. J., Xue, H., Jones, C. S., and Rasmussen, S. (2013). Functional characterisation and transcript analysis of an alkaline phosphatase from the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Funneliformis mosseae. Fungal Genet. Biol. 54, 52–59. doi: 10.1016/j.fgb.2013.02.009 [[Liu_et+al_FunctionalCharacterisationTranscriptAnalysisAlkaline_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fgb.2013.02.009)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.fgb.2013.02.009)

[^Maeda_et+al_2006_a]: Maeda, D., Ashida, K., Iguchi, K., Chechetka, S. A., Hijikata, A., Okusako, Y., et al. (2006). Knockdown of an arbuscular mycorrhiza-inducible phosphate transporter gene of Lotus japonicus suppresses mutualistic symbiosis. Plant Cell Physiol. 47, 807–817. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcj069 [[Maeda_et+al_KnockdownArbuscularMycorrhizainduciblePhosphateTransporter_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcj069)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/pcp/pcj069)

[^Maldonado-Mendoza_et+al_2001_a]: Maldonado-Mendoza, I. E., Dewbre, G. R., and Harrison, M. J. (2001). A phosphate transporter gene from the extra-radical mycelium of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices is regulated in response to phosphate in the environment. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 14, 1140–1148. doi: 10.1094/ MPMI.2001.14.10.1140 [[Maldonado-Mendoza_et+al_PhosphateTransporterGeneFromExtraradical_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001)

[^Marx_et+al_1982_a]: Marx, C., Dexheimer, J., Gianinazzi-Pearson, V., and Gianinazzi, S. (1982). Enzymatic studies on the metabolism of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizas. IV. Ultracytoenzymological evidence (ATPase) for active transfer processes in the host-arbscule interface. New Phytol. 90, 37–43. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1982.tb03238.x [[Marx_et+al_EnzymaticStudiesMetabolismVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizas_1982]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1982.tb03238.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1982.tb03238.x)

[^Nagy_et+al_2005_a]: Nagy, R., Karandashov, V., Chague, V., Kalinkevich, K., Tamasloukht, M. B., Xu, G., et al. (2005). The characterization of novel mycorrhiza-specific phosphate transporters from Lycopersicon esculentum and Solanum tuberosum uncovers functional redundancy in symbiotic phosphate transport in solanaceous species. Plant J. 42, 236–250. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02364.x [[Nagy_et+al_CharacterizationNovelMycorrhizaspecificPhosphateTransporters_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02364.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02364.x)

[^Nakakoshi_et+al_2011_a]: Nakakoshi, M., Nishioka, H., and Katayama, E. (2011). New versatile staining reagents for biological transmission electron microscopy that substitute for uranyl acetate. J. Electron Microsc. 60, 401–407. doi: 10.1093/jmicro/dfr084 [[Nakakoshi_et+al_VersatileStainingReagentsBiologicalTransmission_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jmicro/dfr084)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jmicro/dfr084)

[^Nayuki_et+al_2014_a]: Nayuki, K., Chen, B. D., Ohtomo, R., and Kuga, Y. (2014). Cellular imaging of cadmium in resin sections of arbuscular mycorrhizas using synchrotron micro X-ray fluorescence. Microbes Environ. 29, 60–66. doi: 10.1264/jsme2. ME13093 [[Nayuki_et+al_CellularImagingCadmiumResinSections_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1264/jsme2)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1264/jsme2)

[^Nielsen_et+al_2002_a]: Nielsen, J. S., Joner, E. J., Declerck, S., Olsson, S., and Jakobsen, I. (2002). Phospho-imaging as a tool for visualization and noninvasive measurement of P transport dynamics in arbuscular mycorrhizas. New Phytol. 154, 809– 819. doi: 10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00412.x [[Nielsen_et+al_PhosphoimagingToolVisualizationNoninvasiveMeasurement_2002]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00412.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00412.x)

[^Ohtomo_2005_a]: Ohtomo, R., and Saito, M. (2005). Polyphosphate dynamics in mycorrhizal roots during colonization of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 167, 571–578. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01425.x [[Ohtomo_PolyphosphateDynamicsMycorrhizalRootsDuring_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01425.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01425.x)

[^Pierzynski_et+al_2005_a]: Pierzynski, G. M., Mcdowell, R. W., and Sims, J. T. (2005). “Chemistry, cycling, and potential movement of inorganic phosphorus in soils,” in Phosphorus: Agriculture and the Environment. eds. J. T. Sims and A. N. Sharpley (Madison, WI: American Society of Agronomy, Crop Science Society of America, Soil Science Society of America, Inc.), 53–86. [[Pierzynski_et+al_chemistryCyclingPotentialMovementInorganic_2005]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pierzynski%2C%20G.M.%20Mcdowell%2C%20R.W.%20Sims%2C%20J.T.%20%E2%80%9CChemistry%2C%20cycling%2C%20and%20potential%20movement%20of%20inorganic%20phosphorus%20in%20soils%2C%E2%80%9D%20in%20Phosphorus%3A%20Agriculture%20and%20the%20Environment%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pierzynski%2C%20G.M.%20Mcdowell%2C%20R.W.%20Sims%2C%20J.T.%20%E2%80%9CChemistry%2C%20cycling%2C%20and%20potential%20movement%20of%20inorganic%20phosphorus%20in%20soils%2C%E2%80%9D%20in%20Phosphorus%3A%20Agriculture%20and%20the%20Environment%202005) 

[^Pumplin_et+al_2012_a]: Pumplin, N., Zhang, X., Noar, R. D., and Harrison, M. J. (2012). Polar localization of a symbiosis-specific phosphate transporter is mediated by a transient reorientation of secretion. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109, E665–E672. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1110215109 [[Pumplin_et+al_PolarLocalizationSymbiosisspecificPhosphateTransporter_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1110215109)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1073/pnas.1110215109)

[^Raghothama_1999_a]: Raghothama, K. G. (1999). Phosphate acquisition. Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. Plant Mol. Biol. 50, 665–693. doi: 10.1146/annurev.arplant.50.1.665 [[Raghothama_PhosphateAcquisition_1999]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.arplant.50.1.665)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1146/annurev.arplant.50.1.665)

[^Rasmussen_et+al_2000_a]: Rasmussen, N., Lloyd, D. C., Ratcliffe, R. G., Hansen, P. E., and Jakobsen, I. (2000). 31P NMR for the study of P metabolism and translocation in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Soil 226, 245–253. doi: 10.1023/A:1026411801081 [[Rasmussen_et+al_31pNmrStudyPMetabolism_2000]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1026411801081)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1023/A:1026411801081)

[^Roth_et+al_2019_a]: Roth, R., Hillmer, S., Funaya, C., Chiapello, M., Schumacher, K., Lo Presti, L., et al. (2019). Arbuscular cell invasion coincides with extracellular vesicles and membrane tubules. Nat. Plants 5, 204–211. doi: 10.1038/s41477-019-0365-4 [[Roth_et+al_ArbuscularCellInvasionCoincidesWith_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41477-019-0365-4)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/s41477-019-0365-4)

[^Saito_2016_a]: Saito, K., and Ezawa, T. (2016). “Phosphorus metabolism and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis,” in Molecular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis. ed. F. Martin (New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 197–216. [[Saito_phosphorusMetabolismTransportArbuscularMycorrhizal_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Saito%2C%20K.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20%E2%80%9CPhosphorus%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%E2%80%9D%20in%20Molecular%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Saito%2C%20K.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20%E2%80%9CPhosphorus%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%E2%80%9D%20in%20Molecular%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202016) 

[^Saito_et+al_2005_a]: Saito, K., Ohtomo, R., Kuga-Uetake, Y., Aono, T., and Saito, M. (2005). Direct labeling of polyphosphate at the ultrastructural level in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by using the affinity of the polyphosphate binding domain of Escherichia coli exopolyphosphatase. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 71, 5692–5701. doi: 10.1128/ AEM.71.10.5692-5701.2005 [[Saito_et+al_DirectLabelingPolyphosphateUltrastructuralLevel_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Saito%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Kuga-Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Aono%2C%20T.%20Direct%20labeling%20of%20polyphosphate%20at%20the%20ultrastructural%20level%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20by%20using%20the%20affinity%20of%20the%20polyphosphate%20binding%20domain%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20exopolyphosphatase%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Saito%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Kuga-Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Aono%2C%20T.%20Direct%20labeling%20of%20polyphosphate%20at%20the%20ultrastructural%20level%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20by%20using%20the%20affinity%20of%20the%20polyphosphate%20binding%20domain%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20exopolyphosphatase%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Saito%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Kuga-Uetake%2C%20Y.%20Aono%2C%20T.%20Direct%20labeling%20of%20polyphosphate%20at%20the%20ultrastructural%20level%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20by%20using%20the%20affinity%20of%20the%20polyphosphate%20binding%20domain%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20exopolyphosphatase%202005)

[^Schmittgen_2008_a]: Schmittgen, T. D., and Livak, K. J. (2008). Analyzing real-time PCR data by the comparative Ct method. Nat. Protoc. 3, 1101–1108. doi: 10.1038/ nprot.2008.73 [[Schmittgen_AnalyzingRealtimePcrDataComparative_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/nprot.2008.73)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/nprot.2008.73)

[^Schneider_et+al_2012_a]: Schneider, C. A., Rasband, W. S., and Eliceiri, K. W. (2012). NIH image to ImageJ: 25 years of image analysis. Nat. Methods 9, 671–675. doi: 10.1038/ nmeth.2089 [[Schneider_et+al_NihImageImagej25Years_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2089)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/nmeth.2089)

[^Schott_et+al_2016_a]: Schott, S., Valdebenito, B., Bustos, D., Gomez-Porras, J. L., Sharma, T., and Dreyer, I. (2016). Cooperation through competition—dynamics and microeconomics of a minimal nutrient trade system in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Front. Plant Sci. 7, 912. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00912 [[Schott_et+al_CooperationThroughCompetitiondynamicsMicroeconomicsMinimal_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.00912)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2016.00912)

[^Smith_et+al_2018_a]: Smith, S. A., Wang, Y., and Morrissey, J. H. (2018). DNA ladders can be used to size polyphosphate resolved by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Electrophoresis 39, 2454–2459. doi: 10.1002/elps.201800227 [[Smith_et+al_DnaLaddersUsedSizePolyphosphate_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1002/elps.201800227)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1002/elps.201800227)

[^Smith_et+al_2011_a]: Smith, S. E., Jakobsen, I., Grønlund, M., and Smith, F. A. (2011). Roles of arbuscular mycorrhizas in plant phosphorus nutrition: interactions between pathways of phosphorus uptake in arbuscular mycorrhizal roots have important implications for understanding and manipulating plant phosphorus acquisition. Plant Physiol. 156, 1050–1057. doi: 10.1104/pp.111.174581 [[Smith_et+al_RolesArbuscularMycorrhizasPlantPhosphorus_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.111.174581)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1104/pp.111.174581)

[^Smith_1990_a]: Smith, S. E., and Smith, F. A. (1990). Structure and function of the interfaces in biotrophic symbioses as they relate to nutrient transport. New Phytol. 114, 1–38. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb00370.x [[Smith_StructureFunctionInterfacesBiotrophicSymbioses_1990]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb00370.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb00370.x)

[^Smith_2011_b]: Smith, S. E., and Smith, F. A. (2011). Roles of arbuscular mycorrhizas in plant nutrition and growth: new paradigms from cellular to ecosystem scales. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 62, 227–250. doi: 10.1146/annurev-arplant-042110-103846 [[Smith_RolesArbuscularMycorrhizasPlantNutrition_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-arplant-042110-103846)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1146/annurev-arplant-042110-103846)

[^Smith_et+al_2003_a]: Smith, S. E., Smith, F. A., and Jakobsen, I. (2003). Mycorrhizal fungi can dominate phosphate supply to plants irrespective of growth responses. Plant Physiol. 133, 16–20. doi: 10.1104/pp.103.024380 [[Smith_et+al_MycorrhizalFungiDominatePhosphateSupply_2003]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.103.024380)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1104/pp.103.024380)

[^Smith_et+al_2004_a]: Smith, S. E., Smith, F. A., and Jakobsen, I. (2004). Functional diversity in arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbioses: the contribution of the mycorrhizal P uptake patheway is not correlated with mycorrhizal responses in growth or total P uptake. New Phytol. 162, 511–524. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01039.x [[Smith_et+al_FunctionalDiversityArbuscularMycorrhizalam_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01039.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01039.x)

[^Solaiman_et+al_1999_a]: Solaiman, M. Z., Ezawa, T., Kojima, T., and Saito, M. (1999). Polyphosphates in intraradical and extraradical hyphae of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Gigaspora margarita. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 65, 5604–5606. doi: 10.1128/ AEM.65.12.5604-5606.1999 [[Solaiman_et+al_PolyphosphatesIntraradicalExtraradicalHyphaeArbuscular_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Solaiman%2C%20M.Z.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphates%20in%20intraradical%20and%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Solaiman%2C%20M.Z.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphates%20in%20intraradical%20and%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Solaiman%2C%20M.Z.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Kojima%2C%20T.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Polyphosphates%20in%20intraradical%20and%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Gigaspora%20margarita%201999)

[^Solaiman_2001_a]: Solaiman, M. Z., and Saito, M. (2001). Phosphate efflux from intraradical hyphae of Gigaspora margarita in vitro and its implication for phosphorus translocation. New Phytol. 151, 525–533. doi: 10.1046/j.0028-646x.2001.00182.x [[Solaiman_PhosphateEffluxFromIntraradicalHyphae_2001]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.0028-646x.2001.00182.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.0028-646x.2001.00182.x)

[^Takanishi_et+al_2009_a]: Takanishi, I., Ohtomo, R., Hayatsu, M., and Saito, M. (2009). Short-chain polyphosphate in arbuscular mycorrhizal roots colonized by Glomus spp.: a possible phosphate pool for host plants. Soil Biol. Biochem. 41, 1571–1573. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2009.04.002 [[Takanishi_et+al_ShortchainPolyphosphateArbuscularMycorrhizalRoots_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2009.04.002)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.soilbio.2009.04.002)

[^Takeda_et+al_2009_a]: Takeda, N., Sato, S., Asamizu, E., Tabata, S., and Parniske, M. (2009). Apoplastic plant subtilases support arbuscular mycorrhiza development in Lotus japonicus. Plant J. 58, 766–777. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.03824.x [[Takeda_et+al_ApoplasticPlantSubtilasesSupportArbuscular_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.03824.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.03824.x)

[^Tani_et+al_2009_a]: Tani, C., Ohtomo, R., Osaki, M., Kuga, Y., and Ezawa, T. (2009). ATP-dependent but proton gradient-independent polyphosphate-synthesizing activity in extraradical hyphae of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 75, 7044–7050. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01519-09 [[Tani_et+al_AtpdependentProtonGradientindependentPolyphosphatesynthesizingActivity_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1128/AEM.01519-09)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1128/AEM.01519-09)

[^Tijssen_et+al_1982_a]: Tijssen, J. P. F., Beekes, H. W., and Van Steveninck, J. (1982). Localization of polyphosphates in Saccharomyces fragilis, as revealed by 4′,6-diamidino-2phenylindole fluorescence. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 721, 394–398. doi: 10.1016/0167-4889(82)90094-5 [[Tijssen_et+al_LocalizationPolyphosphatesSaccharomycesFragilisRevealed_1982]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4889(82)90094-5)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/0167-4889(82)90094-5)

[^Tisserant_et+al_2012_a]: Tisserant, E., Kohler, A., Dozolme-Seddas, P., Balestrini, R., Benabdellah, K., Colard, A., et al. (2012). The transcriptome of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices (DAOM 197198) reveals functional tradeoffs in an obligate symbiont. New Phytol. 193, 755–769. doi: 10.1111/j. 1469-8137.2011.03948.x [[Tisserant_et+al_TranscriptomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusGlomus_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2011.03948.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2011.03948.x)

[^Trouvelot_et+al_1986_a]: Trouvelot, A., Kough, J. L., and Gianinazzi-Pearson, V. (1986). “Mesure du taux de mycorhization VA d'un systeme radiculaire. Recherche de methodes d'estimation ayant une signification fonctionnelle” in Physiological and Genetical Aspects of Mycorrhizae. eds. V. Gianinazzi-Pearson and S. Gianinazzi (Paris: INRA Press), 217–221. [[Trouvelot_et+al_mesureTauxMycorhizationVa_1986]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trouvelot%2C%20A.%20Kough%2C%20J.L.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20%E2%80%9CMesure%20du%20taux%20de%20mycorhization%20VA%20d%27un%20systeme%20radiculaire.%20Recherche%20de%20methodes%20d%27estimation%20ayant%20une%20signification%20fonctionnelle%E2%80%9D%20in%20Physiological%20and%20Genetical%20Aspects%20of%20Mycorrhizae%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trouvelot%2C%20A.%20Kough%2C%20J.L.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20%E2%80%9CMesure%20du%20taux%20de%20mycorhization%20VA%20d%27un%20systeme%20radiculaire.%20Recherche%20de%20methodes%20d%27estimation%20ayant%20une%20signification%20fonctionnelle%E2%80%9D%20in%20Physiological%20and%20Genetical%20Aspects%20of%20Mycorrhizae%201986) 

[^Uetake_et+al_2002_a]: Uetake, Y., Kojima, T., Ezawa, T., and Saito, M. (2002). Extensive tubular vacuole system in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Gigaspora margarita. New Phytol. 154, 761–768. doi: 10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00425.x [[Uetake_et+al_ExtensiveTubularVacuoleSystemArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00425.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00425.x)

[^Urbański_et+al_2012_a]: Urbański, D. F., Małolepszy, A., Stougaard, J., and Andersen, S. U. (2012). Genome-wide LORE1 retrotransposon mutagenesis and high-throughput insertion detection in Lotus japonicus. Plant J. 69, 731–741. doi: 10.1111/j. 1365-313X.2011.04827.x [[Urbański_et+al_GenomewideLore1RetrotransposonMutagenesisHighthroughput_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04827.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04827.x)

[^van_Aarle_et+al_2005_a]: Van Aarle, I. M., Cavagnaro, T. R., Smith, S. E., Smith, F. A., and Dickson, S. (2005). Metabolic activity of Glomus intraradices in Arum- and Paris-type arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization. New Phytol. 166, 611–618. doi: 10.1111/j. 1469-8137.2005.01340.x [[van_Aarle_et+al_MetabolicActivityGlomusIntraradicesArum_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01340.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01340.x)

[^Viereck_et+al_2004_a]: Viereck, N., Hansen, P. E., and Jakobsen, I. (2004). Phosphate pool dynamics in the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices studied by in vivo 31P NMR spectroscopy. New Phytol. 162, 783–794. doi: 10.1111/j.14698137.2004.01048.x [[Viereck_et+al_PhosphatePoolDynamicsArbuscularMycorrhizal_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.14698137.2004.01048.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.14698137.2004.01048.x)

[^Wang_et+al_2012_a]: Wang, E., Schornack, S., Marsh, J. F., Gobbato, E., Schwessinger, B., Eastmond, P., et al. (2012). A common signaling process that promotes mycorrhizal and oomycete colonization of plants. Curr. Biol. 22, 2242–2246. doi: 10.1016/j. cub.2012.09.043 Wang, E., Yu, N., Bano, S. A., Liu, C., Miller, A. J., Cousins, D., et al. (2014). A H+-ATPase that energizes nutrient uptake during mycorrhizal symbioses in rice and Medicago truncatula. Plant Cell 26, 1818–1830. doi: 10.1105/ tpc.113.120527 Watanabe, F. S., and Olsen, S. R. (1965). Test of an ascorbic acid method for determining phosphorus in water and NaHCO3 extracts from soil. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 29, 677–678. doi: 10.2136/sssaj1965.03615995002900060025x [[Wang_et+al_CommonSignalingProcessThatPromotes_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2012.09.043)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.cub.2012.09.043)

[^Watts-Williams_et+al_2015_a]: Watts-Williams, S. J., Jakobsen, I., Cavagnaro, T. R., and Grønlund, M. (2015). Local and distal effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization on direct pathway pi uptake and root growth in Medicago truncatula. J. Exp. Bot. 66, 4061–4073. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erv202 [[Watts-Williams_et+al_LocalDistalEffectsArbuscularMycorrhizal_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erv202)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jxb/erv202)

[^Werner_et+al_2007_a]: Werner, T. P., Amrhein, N., and Freimoser, F. M. (2007). Specific localization of inorganic polyphosphate (poly P) in fungal cell walls by selective extraction and immunohistochemistry. Fungal Genet. Biol. 44, 845–852. doi: 10.1016/j. fgb.2007.01.008 Willmann, M., Gerlach, N., Buer, B., Polatajko, A., Nagy, R., Koebke, E., et al. (2013). Mycorrhizal phosphate uptake pathway in maize: vital for growth and cob development on nutrient poor agricultural and greenhouse soils. Front. Plant Sci. 4:533. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2013.00533 [[Werner_et+al_SpecificLocalizationInorganicPolyphosphatepoly_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fgb.2007.01.008)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.fgb.2007.01.008)

[^Xie_et+al_2013_a]: Xie, X., Huang, W., Liu, F., Tang, N., Liu, Y., Lin, H., et al. (2013). Functional analysis of the novel mycorrhiza-specific phosphate transporter AsPT1 and PHT1 family from Astragalus sinicus during the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. New Phytol. 198, 836–852. doi: 10.1111/nph.12188 [[Xie_et+al_FunctionalAnalysisNovelMycorrhizaspecificPhosphate_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.12188)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.12188)

[^Xie_et+al_2016_a]: Xie, X., Lin, H., Peng, X., Xu, C., Sun, Z., Jiang, K., et al. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis requires a phosphate transceptor in the Gigaspora margarita fungal symbiont. Mol. Plant 9, 1583–1608. doi: 10.1016/j. molp.2016.08.011 [[Xie_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisRequiresPhosphate_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molp.2016.08.011)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.molp.2016.08.011)

[^Yang_et+al_2012_a]: Yang, S.-Y., Grønlund, M., Jakobsen, I., Grotemeyer, M. S., Rentsch, D., Miyao, A., et al. (2012). Nonredundant regulation of rice arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis by two members of the PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER1 gene family. Plant Cell 24, 4236–4251. doi: 10.1105/tpc.112.104901 [[Yang_et+al_NonredundantRegulationRiceArbuscularMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1105/tpc.112.104901)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1105/tpc.112.104901)

