[[Zeng_et+al_HostStagedependentSecretomeArbuscularMycorrhizal_2018]]

# [Host‐ and stage‐dependent secretome of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/tpj.13908)

## [[Tian Zeng]]; [[Rens Holmer]]; [[Jan Hontelez]] et al.

### 2018

## Abstract
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi form the most wide-spread endosymbiosis with plants. There is very little host specificity in this interaction, however host preferences as well as varying symbiotic efficiencies have been observed. We hypothesize that secreted proteins (SPs) may act as fungal effectors to control symbiotic efficiency in a host-dependent manner. Therefore, we studied whether arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi adjust their secretome in a host- and stage-dependent manner to contribute to their extremely wide host range. ==We investigated the expression of SP-encoding genes of Rhizophagus irregularis in three evolutionary distantly related plant species, Medicago truncatula, Nicotiana benthamiana and Allium schoenoprasum==. In addition we used laser microdissection in combination with RNA-seq to study SP expression at different stages of the interaction in Medicago. Our data indicate that most expressed SPs show roughly equal expression levels in the interaction with all three host plants. In addition, a subset shows significant differential expression depending on the host plant. Furthermore, SP expression is controlled locally in the hyphal network in response to hostdependent cues. ==Overall, this study presents a comprehensive analysis of the R. irregularis secretome, which now offers a solid basis to direct functional studies on the role of fungal SPs in AM symbiosis==.

## Key concepts
#claim/allium_schoenoprasum; #claim/arbuscular_mycorrhiza; #claim/effector; #claim/medicago_truncatula; #claim/arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #claim/RNA_seq; #claim/secretome; #claim/host_plant; #claim/symbiosis; #chitin; #result/laser_microdissection; #claim/rhizophagus_irregularis; #claim/nicotiana_benthamiana; #mycorrhizal_fungi; #result/hyphal_network; #pathogenic; #claim/host_range; #biology; #virus_induced_gene_silencing; #endosymbiosis; #next_generation_sequencing; #histoplasma_capsulatum

## Quote
> To study whether arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi adjust their secretome depending on the plant host species that they colonize, we analyzed the fungal transcriptome in mycorrhizal roots of three evolutionary distantly related plant species


## Key points
- The vast majority of all land plants establish endosymbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi belonging to the fungal subphylum Glomeromycotina ([^Spatafora_et+al_2016_a])
- Our results reveal that distinct sets of putative effector genes are expressed in extraradical mycelium, intraradical hyphae and in arbuscules
- To study whether AM fungi adjust their secretome depending on the plant host species that they colonize, we analyzed the fungal transcriptome in mycorrhizal roots of three evolutionary distantly related plant species
- The three plant species were inoculated with R. irregularis DAOM197198 and grown under standardized low phosphate conditions (20 lM Pi)
- This host-dependent expression is controlled locally in the hyphal network in response to host-dependent cues. Such host-dependent cues may be specific signals or metabolites of the plant, constitute physical properties of the root system or reflect differences in nutrient conditions that affect fungal development. These results supported our hypothesis that AM secreted proteins (SPs) may act as effectors to control symbiotic efficiency in a host-dependent manner and contribute to the host preferences observed in nature
- host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) has for example been used to silence the putative effector RirG110290, called SIS1, which we show to be most strongly expressed in the intraradical mycelium (IRM) in line with its predicted role in efficient intraradical colonization ([^Tsuzuki_et+al_2016_a])

## Synopsis

### Introduction
The vast majority of all land plants establish endosymbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi belonging to the fungal subphylum Glomeromycotina ([^Spatafora_et+al_2016_a]).
Individual AM fungi can colonize a large number of host plants, which indicates that there is a lack of Continuous signal exchange between both partners is needed to establish a functional AM symbiosis.
This dialog starts when fungal spores/hypha perceive plant signals such as flavonoids, hydroxy fatty acids and strigolactones which stimulate germination, hyphal growth and branching or hyphopodium formation ([^Nadal_2013_a]).
These essential signals are perceived by LysM-domain receptor kinase complexes, which activate a highly conserved signaling cascade, called the common symbiotic signaling pathway ([^Gutjahr_2013_a]; [^Oldroyd_2013_a]; [^Zipfel_2017_a])

### Results
To study whether AM fungi adjust their secretome depending on the plant host species that they colonize, the authors analyzed the fungal transcriptome in mycorrhizal roots of three evolutionary distantly related plant species.
The authors chose the model legume Medicago truncatula (Medicago), Nicotiana benthamiana (Nicotiana) and the monocot crop Allium schoenoprasum.
The three plant species were inoculated with R. irregularis DAOM197198 and grown under standardized low phosphate conditions (20 lM Pi).
At 7 weeks after inoculation plants were harvested and the mycorrhizal colonization level was determined.
All three plants species were well mycorrhized and showed improved growth when compared to the non-mycorrhized control (Figure 1a–c).
Highest mycorrhizal growth stimulation was observed for Nicotiana.
No differences in colonization strategy were observed, with all three plant species showing an Arum-type infection, forming arbuscules in the cortical cells

### Discussion
The authors report a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the expressed SP repertoire of R. irregularis during the interaction with three distantly related host species and during different stages of the interaction.
A subset (~14%) of the SPs show differential expression depending on the host plant
This host-dependent expression is controlled locally in the hyphal network in response to host-dependent cues.
Such host-dependent cues may be specific signals or metabolites of the plant, constitute physical properties of the root system or reflect differences in nutrient conditions that affect fungal development.
These results supported the hypothesis that AM SPs may act as effectors to control symbiotic efficiency in a host-dependent manner and contribute to the host preferences observed in nature

### Conclusion
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi form the most wide-spread endosymbiosis with plants.
There is very little host specificity in this interaction, host preferences as well as varying symbiotic efficiencies have been observed.
The authors hypothesize that secreted proteins (SPs) may act as fungal effectors to control symbiotic efficiency in a host-dependent manner.
The authors studied whether arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi adjust their secretome in a host- and stage-dependent manner to contribute to their extremely wide host range.
In addition the authors used laser microdissection in combination with RNA-seq to study SP expression at different stages of the interaction in Medicago.
The authors' data indicate that most expressed SPs show roughly equal expression levels in the interaction with all three host plants.
A subset shows significant differential expression depending on the host plant.
This study presents a comprehensive analysis of the R. irregularis secretome, which offers a solid basis to direct functional studies on the role of fungal SPs in AM symbiosis


## Study subjects

### 3 plant species
- Our results reveal that distinct sets of putative effector genes are expressed in extraradical mycelium, intraradical hyphae and in arbuscules. ==The vast majority of the expressed effector genes are expressed equally in all three plant species, but in addition a set of host-dependent effector candidates were identified==. These putative effector genes are induced in response to local cues determined by the plant

### 3 host plant species
- These results support the hypothesis that AM effectors may control symbiotic efficiency in a hostdependent manner and offers a comprehensive set of candidate AM effectors for future functional studies. ==Mycorrhization of three host plant species==. To study whether AM fungi adjust their secretome depending on the plant host species that they colonize, we analyzed the fungal transcriptome in mycorrhizal roots of three evolutionary distantly related plant species

### 3 plant species
- Therefore, we chose the model legume Medicago truncatula (Medicago), Nicotiana benthamiana (Nicotiana) and the monocot crop Allium schoenoprasum (chives, which is closely related to important crops in the Alliaceae family). ==The three plant species were inoculated with R. irregularis DAOM197198 and grown under standardized low phosphate conditions (20 lM Pi)==. At 7 weeks after inoculation plants were harvested and the mycorrhizal colonization level was determined

## Data analysis
- #method/pca

## Findings
- In line with [^Sato_et+al_2015_a]), we found two SPs encoding for acid phosphatases (RirG239030 and RirG190440) that were expressed especially in the ERM. These SPs might be of key importance for phosphate utilization in natural soils, which can consist for up to 80% of organic phosphate ([^Dalal_1977_a])

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- Similarly, from the 220 putative effectors predicted by Sezdzielewska Toro and Brachmann (2016), we could only confirm 43 SPs supported by our RNA-seq analyses. For the 78 host-induced SPs identified by [^Tisserant_et+al_2013_a]</a>) ==we could confirm most== (62) in our RNA-seq analysis
- One important mechanism contributing to this ability is the secretion of acid phosphatases by ERM which can free phosphoryl group from organic phosphate that is otherwise not readily available to most plants ([^Sato_et+al_2015_a]). ==In line with [^Sato_et+al_2015_a]), we found two SPs encoding for acid phosphatases== (RirG239030 and RirG190440) that were expressed especially in the ERM

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- ==However, different genome as well as de novo transcriptome assemblies have led to different gene models and predictions ([^Tisserant_et+al_2013_a]; [^Lin_et+al_2014_a]</a></a>). We identified a set of 338 expressed SPs that were well supported by the available RNA-seq data==
- Furthermore, 354 predicted SPs were not found in the DAOM197198w assembly, the majority of which were not classified as expressed SPs based on our criteria. ==Conversely, we predicted 370 SPs that were not considered by== [^Kamel_et+al_2017_b]</a></a></a></a>)

## Data and code
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version


## References
[^Bravo_et+al_2017_a]: Bravo, A., Brands, M., Wewer, V., Dormann, P. and Harrison, M.J. (2017) Arbuscular mycorrhiza-specific enzymes FatM and RAM2 fine-tune lipid biosynthesis to promote development of arbuscular mycorrhiza. New Phytol. 214, 1631–1645. [[Bravo_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaspecificEnzymesFatmRam2_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017)

[^Chabaud_et+al_2006_a]: Chabaud, M., Harrison, M., De Carvalho-niebel, F., Becard, G. and Barker, D.G. (2006) Inoculation and growth of mycorrhizal fungi. In Medicago truncatula Handbook (Mathesius, U., Journet, E.P. and Sumner, L.W., eds). ISBN 0-9754303-1-9. http://www.noble.org/MedicagoHandbook. [[Chabaud_et+al_InoculationGrowthMycorrhizalFungiIn_2006]] [OA](http://www.noble.org/MedicagoHandbook)  

[^Chaudhary_et+al_2014_a]: Chaudhary, R., Atamian, H.S., Shen, Z., Briggs, S.P. and Kaloshian, I. (2014) GroEL from the endosymbiont Buchnera aphidicola betrays the aphid by triggering plant defense. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. 111, 8919–8924. [[Chaudhary_et+al_GroelFromEndosymbiontBuchneraAphidicola_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chaudhary%2C%20R.%20Atamian%2C%20H.S.%20Shen%2C%20Z.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20GroEL%20from%20the%20endosymbiont%20Buchnera%20aphidicola%20betrays%20the%20aphid%20by%20triggering%20plant%20defense%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chaudhary%2C%20R.%20Atamian%2C%20H.S.%20Shen%2C%20Z.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20GroEL%20from%20the%20endosymbiont%20Buchnera%20aphidicola%20betrays%20the%20aphid%20by%20triggering%20plant%20defense%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chaudhary%2C%20R.%20Atamian%2C%20H.S.%20Shen%2C%20Z.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20GroEL%20from%20the%20endosymbiont%20Buchnera%20aphidicola%20betrays%20the%20aphid%20by%20triggering%20plant%20defense%202014)

[^Conesa_et+al_2005_a]: Conesa, A., Go€tz, S., Garcıa-Gomez, J.M., Terol, J., Talon, M. and Robles, M. (2005) Blast2GO: a universal tool for annotation, visualization and analysis in functional genomics research. Bioinformatics, 21, 3674–3676. [[Conesa_et+al_Blast2goUniversalToolAnnotationVisualization_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Conesa%2C%20A.%20Go%E2%82%ACtz%2C%20S.%20Garc%C4%B1a-Gomez%2C%20J.M.%20Terol%2C%20J.%20Blast2GO%3A%20a%20universal%20tool%20for%20annotation%2C%20visualization%20and%20analysis%20in%20functional%20genomics%20research%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Conesa%2C%20A.%20Go%E2%82%ACtz%2C%20S.%20Garc%C4%B1a-Gomez%2C%20J.M.%20Terol%2C%20J.%20Blast2GO%3A%20a%20universal%20tool%20for%20annotation%2C%20visualization%20and%20analysis%20in%20functional%20genomics%20research%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Conesa%2C%20A.%20Go%E2%82%ACtz%2C%20S.%20Garc%C4%B1a-Gomez%2C%20J.M.%20Terol%2C%20J.%20Blast2GO%3A%20a%20universal%20tool%20for%20annotation%2C%20visualization%20and%20analysis%20in%20functional%20genomics%20research%202005)

[^Cord-Landwehr_et+al_2016_a]: Cord-Landwehr, S., Melcher, R.L.J., Kolkenbrock, S. and Moerschbacher, B.M. (2016) A chitin deacetylase from the endophytic fungus Pestalotiopsis sp. efficiently inactivates the elicitor activity of chitin oligomers in rice cells. Sci. Rep. 6, 38018. [[Cord-Landwehr_et+al_ChitinDeacetylaseFromEndophyticFungus_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cord-Landwehr%2C%20S.%20Melcher%2C%20R.L.J.%20Kolkenbrock%2C%20S.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20A%20chitin%20deacetylase%20from%20the%20endophytic%20fungus%20Pestalotiopsis%20sp.%20efficiently%20inactivates%20the%20elicitor%20activity%20of%20chitin%20oligomers%20in%20rice%20cells%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cord-Landwehr%2C%20S.%20Melcher%2C%20R.L.J.%20Kolkenbrock%2C%20S.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20A%20chitin%20deacetylase%20from%20the%20endophytic%20fungus%20Pestalotiopsis%20sp.%20efficiently%20inactivates%20the%20elicitor%20activity%20of%20chitin%20oligomers%20in%20rice%20cells%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cord-Landwehr%2C%20S.%20Melcher%2C%20R.L.J.%20Kolkenbrock%2C%20S.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20A%20chitin%20deacetylase%20from%20the%20endophytic%20fungus%20Pestalotiopsis%20sp.%20efficiently%20inactivates%20the%20elicitor%20activity%20of%20chitin%20oligomers%20in%20rice%20cells%202016)

[^Crossley_2013_a]: Crossley, D.L. (2013) Investigating the Function of the Mold Specific Gene M46, in the Pathogenic Dimorphic Fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Hattiesburg, MS: University of Southern Mississippi. [[Crossley_InvestigatingFunctionMoldSpecificGene_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crossley%2C%20D.L.%20Investigating%20the%20Function%20of%20the%20Mold%20Specific%20Gene%20M46%2C%20in%20the%20Pathogenic%20Dimorphic%20Fungus%20Histoplasma%20capsulatum%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crossley%2C%20D.L.%20Investigating%20the%20Function%20of%20the%20Mold%20Specific%20Gene%20M46%2C%20in%20the%20Pathogenic%20Dimorphic%20Fungus%20Histoplasma%20capsulatum%202013) 

[^Crossley_et+al_2016_a]: Crossley, D., Naraharisetty, V. and Shearer Glenmore, J. (2016) The Mouldspecific M46 gene is not essential for yeast-mould dimorphism in the pathogenic fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Med. Mycol. 54, 876–884. [[Crossley_et+al_MouldspecificM46GeneEssentialYeastmould_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Crossley%2C%20D.%20Naraharisetty%2C%20V.%20Shearer%20Glenmore%2C%20J.%20The%20Mouldspecific%20M46%20gene%20is%20not%20essential%20for%20yeast-mould%20dimorphism%20in%20the%20pathogenic%20fungus%20Histoplasma%20capsulatum%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crossley%2C%20D.%20Naraharisetty%2C%20V.%20Shearer%20Glenmore%2C%20J.%20The%20Mouldspecific%20M46%20gene%20is%20not%20essential%20for%20yeast-mould%20dimorphism%20in%20the%20pathogenic%20fungus%20Histoplasma%20capsulatum%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Crossley%2C%20D.%20Naraharisetty%2C%20V.%20Shearer%20Glenmore%2C%20J.%20The%20Mouldspecific%20M46%20gene%20is%20not%20essential%20for%20yeast-mould%20dimorphism%20in%20the%20pathogenic%20fungus%20Histoplasma%20capsulatum%202016)

[^Dalal_1977_a]: Dalal, R.C. (1977) Soil organic phosphorus. Adv. Agron. 29, 83–117. [[Dalal_SoilOrganicPhosphorus_1977]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dalal%2C%20R.C.%20Soil%20organic%20phosphorus%201977) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dalal%2C%20R.C.%20Soil%20organic%20phosphorus%201977) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dalal%2C%20R.C.%20Soil%20organic%20phosphorus%201977)

[^Parker_2014_a]: Parker, J.E. (2014) Reprogramming of plant cells by filamentous plantcolonizing microbes. New Phytol. 204, 803–814. [[Parker_ReprogrammingPlantCellsFilamentousPlantcolonizing_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parker%2C%20J.E.%20Reprogramming%20of%20plant%20cells%20by%20filamentous%20plantcolonizing%20microbes%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parker%2C%20J.E.%20Reprogramming%20of%20plant%20cells%20by%20filamentous%20plantcolonizing%20microbes%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parker%2C%20J.E.%20Reprogramming%20of%20plant%20cells%20by%20filamentous%20plantcolonizing%20microbes%202014)

[^Garcıa-Garrido_2002_a]: Garcıa-Garrido, J.M. and Ocampo, J.A. (2002) Regulation of the plant defence response in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. J. Exp. Bot. 53, 1377–1386. [[Garcıa-Garrido_RegulationPlantDefenceResponseArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Garc%C4%B1a-Garrido%2C%20J.M.%20Ocampo%2C%20J.A.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20plant%20defence%20response%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Garc%C4%B1a-Garrido%2C%20J.M.%20Ocampo%2C%20J.A.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20plant%20defence%20response%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Garc%C4%B1a-Garrido%2C%20J.M.%20Ocampo%2C%20J.A.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20plant%20defence%20response%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002)

[^Genre_et+al_2013_a]: Genre, A., Chabaud, M., Balzergue, C. et al. (2013) Short-chain chitin oligomers from arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi trigger nuclear Ca2+ spiking in [[Genre_et+al_ShortchainChitinOligomersFromArbuscular_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Short-chain%20chitin%20oligomers%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20trigger%20nuclear%20Ca2%2B%20spiking%20in%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Short-chain%20chitin%20oligomers%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20trigger%20nuclear%20Ca2%2B%20spiking%20in%202013) 

[^Giraldo_2013_a]: Giraldo, M.C. and Valent, B. (2013) Filamentous plant pathogen effectors in action. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 11, 800–814. [[Giraldo_FilamentousPlantPathogenEffectorsAction_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Giraldo%2C%20M.C.%20Valent%2C%20B.%20Filamentous%20plant%20pathogen%20effectors%20in%20action%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Giraldo%2C%20M.C.%20Valent%2C%20B.%20Filamentous%20plant%20pathogen%20effectors%20in%20action%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Giraldo%2C%20M.C.%20Valent%2C%20B.%20Filamentous%20plant%20pathogen%20effectors%20in%20action%202013)

[^Gosling_et+al_2016_a]: Gosling, P., Jones, J. and Bending, G.D. (2016) Evidence for functional redundancy in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and implications for agroecosystem management. Mycorrhiza, 26, 77–83. [[Gosling_et+al_EvidenceFunctionalRedundancyArbuscularMycorrhizal_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gosling%2C%20P.%20Jones%2C%20J.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Evidence%20for%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20implications%20for%20agroecosystem%20management%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gosling%2C%20P.%20Jones%2C%20J.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Evidence%20for%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20implications%20for%20agroecosystem%20management%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gosling%2C%20P.%20Jones%2C%20J.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Evidence%20for%20functional%20redundancy%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20implications%20for%20agroecosystem%20management%202016)

[^Gough_2011_a]: Gough, C. and Cullimore, J. (2011) Lipo-chitooligosaccharide signaling in endosymbiotic plant-microbe interactions. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 24, 867–878. [[Gough_LipochitooligosaccharideSignalingEndosymbioticPlantmicrobeInteractions_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gough%2C%20C.%20Cullimore%2C%20J.%20Lipo-chitooligosaccharide%20signaling%20in%20endosymbiotic%20plant-microbe%20interactions%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gough%2C%20C.%20Cullimore%2C%20J.%20Lipo-chitooligosaccharide%20signaling%20in%20endosymbiotic%20plant-microbe%20interactions%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gough%2C%20C.%20Cullimore%2C%20J.%20Lipo-chitooligosaccharide%20signaling%20in%20endosymbiotic%20plant-microbe%20interactions%202011)

[^Gueddari_et+al_2002_a]: Gueddari, N.E.El, Rauchhaus, U., Moerschbacher, B.M. and Deising, H.B. (2002) Developmentally regulated conversion of surface-exposed chitin to chi- tosan in cell walls of plant pathogenic fungi. New Phytol. 156, 103–112. [[Gueddari_et+al_DevelopmentallyRegulatedConversionSurfaceexposedChitin_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gueddari%2C%20N.E.El%20Rauchhaus%2C%20U.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20Deising%2C%20H.B.%20Developmentally%20regulated%20conversion%20of%20surface-exposed%20chitin%20to%20chi-%20tosan%20in%20cell%20walls%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20fungi%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gueddari%2C%20N.E.El%20Rauchhaus%2C%20U.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20Deising%2C%20H.B.%20Developmentally%20regulated%20conversion%20of%20surface-exposed%20chitin%20to%20chi-%20tosan%20in%20cell%20walls%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20fungi%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gueddari%2C%20N.E.El%20Rauchhaus%2C%20U.%20Moerschbacher%2C%20B.M.%20Deising%2C%20H.B.%20Developmentally%20regulated%20conversion%20of%20surface-exposed%20chitin%20to%20chi-%20tosan%20in%20cell%20walls%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20fungi%202002)

[^Gutjahr_2013_a]: Gutjahr, C. and Parniske, M. (2013) Cell and developmental biology of arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis. Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 29, 593–617. [[Gutjahr_CellDevelopmentalBiologyArbuscularMycorrhiza_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Parniske%2C%20M.%20Cell%20and%20developmental%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Parniske%2C%20M.%20Cell%20and%20developmental%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Parniske%2C%20M.%20Cell%20and%20developmental%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%202013)

[^Guyon_et+al_2014_a]: Guyon, K., Balague, C., Roby, D. and Raffaele, S. (2014) Secretome analysis reveals effector candidates associated with broad host range necrotrophy in the fungal plant pathogen Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. BMC Genom. 15, 336. van der Heijden, M.G.A., Martin, F.M., Selosse, M.-A. and Sanders, I.R. (2015) Mycorrhizal ecology and evolution: the past, the present, and the future. New Phytol. 205, 1406–1423. [[Guyon_et+al_SecretomeAnalysisRevealsEffectorCandidates_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guyon%2C%20K.%20Balague%2C%20C.%20Roby%2C%20D.%20Raffaele%2C%20S.%20Secretome%20analysis%20reveals%20effector%20candidates%20associated%20with%20broad%20host%20range%20necrotrophy%20in%20the%20fungal%20plant%20pathogen%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guyon%2C%20K.%20Balague%2C%20C.%20Roby%2C%20D.%20Raffaele%2C%20S.%20Secretome%20analysis%20reveals%20effector%20candidates%20associated%20with%20broad%20host%20range%20necrotrophy%20in%20the%20fungal%20plant%20pathogen%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guyon%2C%20K.%20Balague%2C%20C.%20Roby%2C%20D.%20Raffaele%2C%20S.%20Secretome%20analysis%20reveals%20effector%20candidates%20associated%20with%20broad%20host%20range%20necrotrophy%20in%20the%20fungal%20plant%20pathogen%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%202014)

[^Helgason_et+al_1998_a]: Helgason, T., Daniell, T.J., Husband, R., Fitter, A.H. and Young, J.P.W. (1998) Ploughing up the wood-wide web? Nature, 394, 431. [[Helgason_et+al_PloughingWoodwide_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Helgason%2C%20T.%20Daniell%2C%20T.J.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Ploughing%20up%20the%20wood-wide%20web%3F%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Helgason%2C%20T.%20Daniell%2C%20T.J.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Ploughing%20up%20the%20wood-wide%20web%3F%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Helgason%2C%20T.%20Daniell%2C%20T.J.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Ploughing%20up%20the%20wood-wide%20web%3F%201998)

[^Inohara_2002_a]: Inohara, N. and Nun~ez, G. (2002) ML – a conserved domain involved in innate immunity and lipid metabolism. Trends Biochem. Sci. 27, 219–221. [[Inohara_MlConservedDomainInvolved_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Inohara%2C%20N.%20Nun~ez%2C%20G.%20ML%20%E2%80%93%20a%20conserved%20domain%20involved%20in%20innate%20immunity%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Inohara%2C%20N.%20Nun~ez%2C%20G.%20ML%20%E2%80%93%20a%20conserved%20domain%20involved%20in%20innate%20immunity%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Inohara%2C%20N.%20Nun~ez%2C%20G.%20ML%20%E2%80%93%20a%20conserved%20domain%20involved%20in%20innate%20immunity%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%202002)

[^Jany_2010_a]: Jany, J. and Pawlowska, T.E. (2010) Multinucleate spores contribute to evolutionary longevity of asexual glomeromycota. Am. Nat. 175, 424–435. [[Jany_MultinucleateSporesContributeEvolutionaryLongevity_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jany%2C%20J.%20Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Multinucleate%20spores%20contribute%20to%20evolutionary%20longevity%20of%20asexual%20glomeromycota%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jany%2C%20J.%20Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Multinucleate%20spores%20contribute%20to%20evolutionary%20longevity%20of%20asexual%20glomeromycota%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jany%2C%20J.%20Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Multinucleate%20spores%20contribute%20to%20evolutionary%20longevity%20of%20asexual%20glomeromycota%202010)

[^Jiang_et+al_2017_a]: Jiang, Y., Wang, W., Xie, Q. et al. (2017) Plants transfer lipids to sustain colonization by mutualistic mycorrhizal and parasitic fungi. Science, 356, 1172–1175. [[Jiang_et+al_PlantsTransferLipidsSustainColonization_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017)

[^de_Jonge_et+al_2010_a]: de Jonge, R., van Esse, H.P., Kombrink, A. et al. (2010) Conserved fungal LysM effector Ecp6 prevents chitin-triggered immunity in plants. Science, 329, 953–955. [[de_Jonge_et+al_ConservedFungalLysmEffectorEcp6_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=de%20Jonge%2C%20R.%20van%20Esse%2C%20H.P.%20Kombrink%2C%20A.%20Conserved%20fungal%20LysM%20effector%20Ecp6%20prevents%20chitin-triggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=de%20Jonge%2C%20R.%20van%20Esse%2C%20H.P.%20Kombrink%2C%20A.%20Conserved%20fungal%20LysM%20effector%20Ecp6%20prevents%20chitin-triggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=de%20Jonge%2C%20R.%20van%20Esse%2C%20H.P.%20Kombrink%2C%20A.%20Conserved%20fungal%20LysM%20effector%20Ecp6%20prevents%20chitin-triggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202010)

[^Kamel_et+al_2017_a]: Kamel, L., Keller-Pearson, M., Roux, C. and Ane, J.M. (2017a) Biology and evolution of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis in the light of genomics. New Phytol. 213, 531–536. [[Kamel_et+al_BiologyEvolutionArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Keller-Pearson%2C%20M.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Biology%20and%20evolution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20the%20light%20of%20genomics%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Keller-Pearson%2C%20M.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Biology%20and%20evolution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20the%20light%20of%20genomics%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Keller-Pearson%2C%20M.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Biology%20and%20evolution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20the%20light%20of%20genomics%202017)

[^Kamel_et+al_2017_b]: Kamel, L., Tang, N., Malbreil, M., San Clemente, H., Le Marquer, M., Roux, C. and Frei dit Frey, N. (2017b) The comparison of expressed candidate secreted proteins from two arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi unravels common and specific molecular tools to invade different host plants. Front. Plant Sci. 8, 1–18. [[Kamel_et+al_ComparisonExpressedCandidateSecretedProteins_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Tang%2C%20N.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20The%20comparison%20of%20expressed%20candidate%20secreted%20proteins%20from%20two%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20unravels%20common%20and%20specific%20molecular%20tools%20to%20invade%20different%20host%20plants%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Tang%2C%20N.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20The%20comparison%20of%20expressed%20candidate%20secreted%20proteins%20from%20two%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20unravels%20common%20and%20specific%20molecular%20tools%20to%20invade%20different%20host%20plants%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kamel%2C%20L.%20Tang%2C%20N.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20The%20comparison%20of%20expressed%20candidate%20secreted%20proteins%20from%20two%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20unravels%20common%20and%20specific%20molecular%20tools%20to%20invade%20different%20host%20plants%202017)

[^Keymer_et+al_2017_a]: Keymer, A., Pimprikar, P., Wewer, V. et al. (2017) Lipid transfer from plants to arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi. Elife, 6, 1–33. [[Keymer_et+al_LipidTransferFromPlantsArbuscular_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Keymer%2C%20A.%20Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Lipid%20transfer%20from%20plants%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Keymer%2C%20A.%20Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Lipid%20transfer%20from%20plants%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Keymer%2C%20A.%20Pimprikar%2C%20P.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Lipid%20transfer%20from%20plants%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungi%202017)

[^Kikuchi_et+al_2016_a]: Kikuchi, Y., Hijikata, N., Ohtomo, R., Handa, Y., Kawaguchi, M., Saito, K., Masuta, C. and Ezawa, T. (2016) Aquaporin-mediated long-distance polyphosphate translocation directed towards the host in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: application of virus-induced gene silencing. New Phytol. 211, 1202–1208. [[Kikuchi_et+al_AquaporinmediatedLongdistancePolyphosphateTranslocationDirected_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Aquaporin-mediated%20long-distance%20polyphosphate%20translocation%20directed%20towards%20the%20host%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20application%20of%20virus-induced%20gene%20silencing%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Aquaporin-mediated%20long-distance%20polyphosphate%20translocation%20directed%20towards%20the%20host%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20application%20of%20virus-induced%20gene%20silencing%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Aquaporin-mediated%20long-distance%20polyphosphate%20translocation%20directed%20towards%20the%20host%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20application%20of%20virus-induced%20gene%20silencing%202016)

[^Kim_et+al_2016_a]: Kim, K.-T., Jeon, J., Choi, J., Cheong, K., Song, H., Choi, G., Kang, S. and Lee, Y.-H. (2016) Kingdom-wide analysis of fungal small secreted proteins (SSPs) reveals their potential role in host association. Front. Plant Sci. 7, 1–13. [[Kim_et+al_KingdomwideAnalysisFungalSmallSecreted_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kim%2C%20K.-T.%20Jeon%2C%20J.%20Choi%2C%20J.%20Cheong%2C%20K.%20Kingdom-wide%20analysis%20of%20fungal%20small%20secreted%20proteins%20%28SSPs%29%20reveals%20their%20potential%20role%20in%20host%20association%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20K.-T.%20Jeon%2C%20J.%20Choi%2C%20J.%20Cheong%2C%20K.%20Kingdom-wide%20analysis%20of%20fungal%20small%20secreted%20proteins%20%28SSPs%29%20reveals%20their%20potential%20role%20in%20host%20association%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kim%2C%20K.-T.%20Jeon%2C%20J.%20Choi%2C%20J.%20Cheong%2C%20K.%20Kingdom-wide%20analysis%20of%20fungal%20small%20secreted%20proteins%20%28SSPs%29%20reveals%20their%20potential%20role%20in%20host%20association%202016)

[^Kloppholz_et+al_2011_a]: Kloppholz, S., Kuhn, H. and Requena, N. (2011) A secreted fungal effector of glomus intraradices promotes symbiotic biotrophy. Curr. Biol. 21, 1204– 1209. [[Kloppholz_et+al_SecretedFungalEffectorGlomusIntraradices_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011)

[^Koch_et+al_2017_a]: Koch, A.M., Antunes, P.M., Maherali, H., Hart, M.M. and Klironomos, J.N. (2017) Evolutionary asymmetry in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: conservatism in fungal morphology does not predict host plant growth. New Phytol. 214, 1330–1337. [[Koch_et+al_EvolutionaryAsymmetryArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Antunes%2C%20P.M.%20Maherali%2C%20H.%20Hart%2C%20M.M.%20Evolutionary%20asymmetry%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20conservatism%20in%20fungal%20morphology%20does%20not%20predict%20host%20plant%20growth%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Antunes%2C%20P.M.%20Maherali%2C%20H.%20Hart%2C%20M.M.%20Evolutionary%20asymmetry%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20conservatism%20in%20fungal%20morphology%20does%20not%20predict%20host%20plant%20growth%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Antunes%2C%20P.M.%20Maherali%2C%20H.%20Hart%2C%20M.M.%20Evolutionary%20asymmetry%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20conservatism%20in%20fungal%20morphology%20does%20not%20predict%20host%20plant%20growth%202017)

[^Lahrmann_et+al_2013_a]: Lahrmann, U., Ding, Y., Banhara, A., Rath, M., Hajirezaei, M.R., Do€hlemann, S., von Wiren, N., Parniske, M. and Zuccaro, A. (2013) Host-related metabolic cues affect colonization strategies of a root endophyte. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 110, 13965–13970. [[Lahrmann_et+al_HostrelatedMetabolicCuesAffectColonization_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lahrmann%2C%20U.%20Ding%2C%20Y.%20Banhara%2C%20A.%20Rath%2C%20M.%20Host-related%20metabolic%20cues%20affect%20colonization%20strategies%20of%20a%20root%20endophyte%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lahrmann%2C%20U.%20Ding%2C%20Y.%20Banhara%2C%20A.%20Rath%2C%20M.%20Host-related%20metabolic%20cues%20affect%20colonization%20strategies%20of%20a%20root%20endophyte%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lahrmann%2C%20U.%20Ding%2C%20Y.%20Banhara%2C%20A.%20Rath%2C%20M.%20Host-related%20metabolic%20cues%20affect%20colonization%20strategies%20of%20a%20root%20endophyte%202013)

[^Lee_et+al_2006_a]: Lee, J., Park, S.-H. and Eom, A.-H. (2006) Molecular identification of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal spores collected in Korea. Mycobiology, 34, 7–13. [[Lee_et+al_MolecularIdentificationArbuscularMycorrhizalFungal_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lee%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20S.-H.%20Eom%2C%20A.-H.%20Molecular%20identification%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20collected%20in%20Korea%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lee%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20S.-H.%20Eom%2C%20A.-H.%20Molecular%20identification%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20collected%20in%20Korea%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lee%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20S.-H.%20Eom%2C%20A.-H.%20Molecular%20identification%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20collected%20in%20Korea%202006)

[^Limpens_et+al_2004_a]: Limpens, E., Ramos, J., Franken, C., Raz, V., Compaan, B., Franssen, H., Bisseling, T. and Geurts, R. (2004) RNA interference in Agrobacterium rhizogenes-transformed roots of Arabidopsis and Medicago truncatula. J. Exp. Bot. 55, 983–992. [[Limpens_et+al_RnaInterferenceAgrobacteriumRhizogenestransformedRoots_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Limpens%2C%20E.%20Ramos%2C%20J.%20Franken%2C%20C.%20Raz%2C%20V.%20RNA%20interference%20in%20Agrobacterium%20rhizogenes-transformed%20roots%20of%20Arabidopsis%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Limpens%2C%20E.%20Ramos%2C%20J.%20Franken%2C%20C.%20Raz%2C%20V.%20RNA%20interference%20in%20Agrobacterium%20rhizogenes-transformed%20roots%20of%20Arabidopsis%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Limpens%2C%20E.%20Ramos%2C%20J.%20Franken%2C%20C.%20Raz%2C%20V.%20RNA%20interference%20in%20Agrobacterium%20rhizogenes-transformed%20roots%20of%20Arabidopsis%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202004)

[^Lin_et+al_2014_a]: Lin, K., Limpens, E., Zhang, Z. et al. (2014) Single nucleus genome sequencing reveals high similarity among nuclei of an endomycorrhizal fungus. PLoS Genet. 10, e1004078. [[Lin_et+al_SingleNucleusGenomeSequencingReveals_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lin%2C%20K.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Single%20nucleus%20genome%20sequencing%20reveals%20high%20similarity%20among%20nuclei%20of%20an%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lin%2C%20K.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Single%20nucleus%20genome%20sequencing%20reveals%20high%20similarity%20among%20nuclei%20of%20an%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lin%2C%20K.%20Limpens%2C%20E.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Single%20nucleus%20genome%20sequencing%20reveals%20high%20similarity%20among%20nuclei%20of%20an%20endomycorrhizal%20fungus%202014)

[^Love_et+al_2014_a]: Love, M.I., Huber, W. and Anders, S. (2014) Moderated estimation of fold change and dispersion for RNA-seq data with DESeq2. Genome Biol. 15, 550. [[Love_et+al_ModeratedEstimationFoldChangeDispersion_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Love%2C%20M.I.%20Huber%2C%20W.%20Anders%2C%20S.%20Moderated%20estimation%20of%20fold%20change%20and%20dispersion%20for%20RNA-seq%20data%20with%20DESeq2%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Love%2C%20M.I.%20Huber%2C%20W.%20Anders%2C%20S.%20Moderated%20estimation%20of%20fold%20change%20and%20dispersion%20for%20RNA-seq%20data%20with%20DESeq2%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Love%2C%20M.I.%20Huber%2C%20W.%20Anders%2C%20S.%20Moderated%20estimation%20of%20fold%20change%20and%20dispersion%20for%20RNA-seq%20data%20with%20DESeq2%202014)

[^Luginbuehl_et+al_2017_a]: Luginbuehl, L.H., Menard, G.N., Kurup, S., Erp, H.Van, Radhakrishnan, G.V., Breakspear, A., Oldroyd, G.E.D. and Eastmond, P.J. (2017) Fatty acids in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are synthesized by the host plant. Science, 356, 1175–1178. [[Luginbuehl_et+al_FattyAcidsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Erp%2C%20H.Van%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017)

[^Maillet_et+al_2011_a]: Maillet, F., Poinsot, V., Andre, O. et al. (2011) Fungal lipochitooligosaccharide symbiotic signals in arbuscular mycorrhiza. Nature, 469, 58–63. [[Maillet_et+al_FungalLipochitooligosaccharideSymbioticSignalsArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Andre%2C%20O.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Andre%2C%20O.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Andre%2C%20O.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011)

[^Marleau_et+al_2011_a]: Marleau, J., Dalpe, Y., St-Arnaud, M. and Hijri, M. (2011) Spore development and nuclear inheritance in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. BMC Evol. Biol. 11, 51. [[Marleau_et+al_SporeDevelopmentNuclearInheritanceArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marleau%2C%20J.%20Dalpe%2C%20Y.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Spore%20development%20and%20nuclear%20inheritance%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marleau%2C%20J.%20Dalpe%2C%20Y.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Spore%20development%20and%20nuclear%20inheritance%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marleau%2C%20J.%20Dalpe%2C%20Y.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Spore%20development%20and%20nuclear%20inheritance%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202011)

[^Mikes_et+al_1998_a]: Mikes, V., Milat, M.L., Ponchet, M., Panabieres, F., Ricci, P. and Blein, J.P. (1998) Elicitins, proteinaceous elicitors of plant defense, are a new class of sterol carrier proteins. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 245, 133– 139. [[Mikes_et+al_ElicitinsProteinaceousElicitorsPlantDefense_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Panabieres%2C%20F.%20Elicitins%2C%20proteinaceous%20elicitors%20of%20plant%20defense%2C%20are%20a%20new%20class%20of%20sterol%20carrier%20proteins%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Panabieres%2C%20F.%20Elicitins%2C%20proteinaceous%20elicitors%20of%20plant%20defense%2C%20are%20a%20new%20class%20of%20sterol%20carrier%20proteins%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Panabieres%2C%20F.%20Elicitins%2C%20proteinaceous%20elicitors%20of%20plant%20defense%2C%20are%20a%20new%20class%20of%20sterol%20carrier%20proteins%201998)

[^Nadal_2013_a]: Nadal, M. and Paszkowski, U. (2013) Polyphony in the rhizosphere: presymbiotic communication in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 16, 473–479. [[Nadal_PolyphonyRhizospherePresymbioticCommunicationArbuscular_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nadal%2C%20M.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Polyphony%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20presymbiotic%20communication%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nadal%2C%20M.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Polyphony%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20presymbiotic%20communication%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nadal%2C%20M.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Polyphony%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20presymbiotic%20communication%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013)

[^Nielsen_1998_a]: Nielsen, H. and Krogh, A. (1998) Prediction of signal peptides and signal anchors by a hidden Markov model. Proc. Int. Conf. Intell. Syst. Mol. Biol. 6, 122–130. [[Nielsen_PredictionSignalPeptidesSignalAnchors_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nielsen%2C%20H.%20Krogh%2C%20A.%20Prediction%20of%20signal%20peptides%20and%20signal%20anchors%20by%20a%20hidden%20Markov%20model%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nielsen%2C%20H.%20Krogh%2C%20A.%20Prediction%20of%20signal%20peptides%20and%20signal%20anchors%20by%20a%20hidden%20Markov%20model%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nielsen%2C%20H.%20Krogh%2C%20A.%20Prediction%20of%20signal%20peptides%20and%20signal%20anchors%20by%20a%20hidden%20Markov%20model%201998)

[^Oldroyd_2013_a]: Oldroyd, G.E.D. (2013) Speak, friend, and enter: signalling systems that promote beneficial symbiotic associations in plants. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 11, 252–263. [[Oldroyd_SpeakFriendEnterSignallingSystems_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013)

[^Petersen_et+al_2011_a]: Petersen, T.N., Brunak, S., von Heijne, G. and Nielsen, H. (2011) SignalP 4.0: discriminating signal peptides from transmembrane regions. Nat. Methods, 8, 785–786. [[Petersen_et+al_Signalp40DiscriminatingSignalPeptides_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Petersen%2C%20T.N.%20Brunak%2C%20S.%20von%20Heijne%2C%20G.%20Nielsen%2C%20H.%20SignalP%204.0%3A%20discriminating%20signal%20peptides%20from%20transmembrane%20regions%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Petersen%2C%20T.N.%20Brunak%2C%20S.%20von%20Heijne%2C%20G.%20Nielsen%2C%20H.%20SignalP%204.0%3A%20discriminating%20signal%20peptides%20from%20transmembrane%20regions%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Petersen%2C%20T.N.%20Brunak%2C%20S.%20von%20Heijne%2C%20G.%20Nielsen%2C%20H.%20SignalP%204.0%3A%20discriminating%20signal%20peptides%20from%20transmembrane%20regions%202011)

[^Plett_2015_a]: Plett, J.M. and Martin, F. (2015) Reconsidering mutualistic plant–fungal interactions through the lens of effector biology. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 26, 45–50. [[Plett_ReconsideringMutualisticPlantfungalInteractionsThrough_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Plett%2C%20J.M.%20Martin%2C%20F.%20Reconsidering%20mutualistic%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%20through%20the%20lens%20of%20effector%20biology%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plett%2C%20J.M.%20Martin%2C%20F.%20Reconsidering%20mutualistic%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%20through%20the%20lens%20of%20effector%20biology%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Plett%2C%20J.M.%20Martin%2C%20F.%20Reconsidering%20mutualistic%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%20through%20the%20lens%20of%20effector%20biology%202015)

[^Presti_et+al_2015_a]: Presti, L.Lo, Lanver, D., Schweizer, G., Tanaka, S., Liang, L., Tollot, M., Zuccaro, A., Reissmann, S. and Kahmann, R. (2015) Fungal effectors and plant susceptibility. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 66, 513–545. [[Presti_et+al_FungalEffectorsPlantSusceptibility_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Presti%2C%20L.Lo%20Lanver%2C%20D.%20Schweizer%2C%20G.%20Tanaka%2C%20S.%20Fungal%20effectors%20and%20plant%20susceptibility%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Presti%2C%20L.Lo%20Lanver%2C%20D.%20Schweizer%2C%20G.%20Tanaka%2C%20S.%20Fungal%20effectors%20and%20plant%20susceptibility%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Presti%2C%20L.Lo%20Lanver%2C%20D.%20Schweizer%2C%20G.%20Tanaka%2C%20S.%20Fungal%20effectors%20and%20plant%20susceptibility%202015)

[^Sanders_2010_a]: Sanders, I.R. (2010) ‘Designer’ mycorrhizas?: using natural genetic variation in AM fungi to increase plant growth. ISME J. 4, 1081–1083. [[Sanders_designerMycorrhizasUsingNaturalGenetic_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20%E2%80%98Designer%E2%80%99%20mycorrhizas%3F%3A%20using%20natural%20genetic%20variation%20in%20AM%20fungi%20to%20increase%20plant%20growth%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20%E2%80%98Designer%E2%80%99%20mycorrhizas%3F%3A%20using%20natural%20genetic%20variation%20in%20AM%20fungi%20to%20increase%20plant%20growth%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20%E2%80%98Designer%E2%80%99%20mycorrhizas%3F%3A%20using%20natural%20genetic%20variation%20in%20AM%20fungi%20to%20increase%20plant%20growth%202010)

[^Sato_et+al_2015_a]: Sato, T., Ezawa, T., Cheng, W. and Tawaraya, K. (2015) Release of acid phosphatase from extraradical hyphae of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus clarus. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 61, 269–274. [[Sato_et+al_ReleaseAcidPhosphataseFromExtraradical_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sato%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Tawaraya%2C%20K.%20Release%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20from%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sato%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Tawaraya%2C%20K.%20Release%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20from%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sato%2C%20T.%20Ezawa%2C%20T.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Tawaraya%2C%20K.%20Release%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20from%20extraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202015)

[^Sawers_et+al_2017_a]: Sawers, R.J.H., Svane, S.F., Quan, C. et al. (2017) Phosphorus acquisition efficiency in arbuscular mycorrhizal maize is correlated with the abundance of root-external hyphae and the accumulation of transcripts encoding PHT1 phosphate transporters. New Phytol. 214, 632–643. [[Sawers_et+al_PhosphorusAcquisitionEfficiencyArbuscularMycorrhizal_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sawers%2C%20R.J.H.%20Svane%2C%20S.F.%20Quan%2C%20C.%20Phosphorus%20acquisition%20efficiency%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20maize%20is%20correlated%20with%20the%20abundance%20of%20root-external%20hyphae%20and%20the%20accumulation%20of%20transcripts%20encoding%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporters%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sawers%2C%20R.J.H.%20Svane%2C%20S.F.%20Quan%2C%20C.%20Phosphorus%20acquisition%20efficiency%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20maize%20is%20correlated%20with%20the%20abundance%20of%20root-external%20hyphae%20and%20the%20accumulation%20of%20transcripts%20encoding%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporters%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sawers%2C%20R.J.H.%20Svane%2C%20S.F.%20Quan%2C%20C.%20Phosphorus%20acquisition%20efficiency%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20maize%20is%20correlated%20with%20the%20abundance%20of%20root-external%20hyphae%20and%20the%20accumulation%20of%20transcripts%20encoding%20PHT1%20phosphate%20transporters%202017)

[^Sezdzielewska_2016_a]: Sezdzielewska Toro, K. and Brachmann, A. (2016) The effector candidate repertoire of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus clarus. BMC Genom. 17, 101. [[Sezdzielewska_EffectorCandidateRepertoireArbuscularMycorrhizal_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sezdzielewska%20Toro%2C%20K.%20Brachmann%2C%20A.%20The%20effector%20candidate%20repertoire%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sezdzielewska%20Toro%2C%20K.%20Brachmann%2C%20A.%20The%20effector%20candidate%20repertoire%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sezdzielewska%20Toro%2C%20K.%20Brachmann%2C%20A.%20The%20effector%20candidate%20repertoire%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20clarus%202016)

[^Selin_et+al_2016_a]: Selin, C., de Kievit, T.R., Belmonte, M.F. and Fernando, W.G.D. (2016) Elucidating the role of effectors in plant–fungal interactions: progress and challenges. Front. Microbiol. 7, 1–21. [[Selin_et+al_ElucidatingRoleEffectorsPlantfungalInteractions_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Selin%2C%20C.%20de%20Kievit%2C%20T.R.%20Belmonte%2C%20M.F.%20Fernando%2C%20W.G.D.%20Elucidating%20the%20role%20of%20effectors%20in%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%3A%20progress%20and%20challenges%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Selin%2C%20C.%20de%20Kievit%2C%20T.R.%20Belmonte%2C%20M.F.%20Fernando%2C%20W.G.D.%20Elucidating%20the%20role%20of%20effectors%20in%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%3A%20progress%20and%20challenges%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Selin%2C%20C.%20de%20Kievit%2C%20T.R.%20Belmonte%2C%20M.F.%20Fernando%2C%20W.G.D.%20Elucidating%20the%20role%20of%20effectors%20in%20plant%E2%80%93fungal%20interactions%3A%20progress%20and%20challenges%202016)

[^Smith_2008_a]: Smith, S. and Read, D. (2008) Mycorrhizal Symbiosis. London: Academic Press. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.%20Read%2C%20D.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.%20Read%2C%20D.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%202008) 

[^Spatafora_et+al_2016_a]: Spatafora, J.W., Chang, Y., Benny, G.L. et al. (2016) A phylum-level phylogenetic classification of zygomycete fungi based on genome-scale data. Mycologia, 108, 1028–1046. [[Spatafora_et+al_PhylumlevelPhylogeneticClassificationZygomyceteFungi_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20A%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genome-scale%20data%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20A%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genome-scale%20data%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Spatafora%2C%20J.W.%20Chang%2C%20Y.%20Benny%2C%20G.L.%20A%20phylum-level%20phylogenetic%20classification%20of%20zygomycete%20fungi%20based%20on%20genome-scale%20data%202016)

[^Sperschneider_et+al_2017_a]: Sperschneider, J., Catanzariti, A.-M., DeBoer, K., Petre, B., Gardiner, D.M., Singh, K.B., Dodds, P.N. and Taylor, J.M. (2017) LOCALIZER: subcellular localization prediction of both plant and effector proteins in the plant cell. Sci. Rep. 7, 44598. [[Sperschneider_et+al_LocalizerSubcellularLocalizationPredictionBoth_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sperschneider%2C%20J.%20Catanzariti%2C%20A.-M.%20DeBoer%2C%20K.%20Petre%2C%20B.%20LOCALIZER%3A%20subcellular%20localization%20prediction%20of%20both%20plant%20and%20effector%20proteins%20in%20the%20plant%20cell%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sperschneider%2C%20J.%20Catanzariti%2C%20A.-M.%20DeBoer%2C%20K.%20Petre%2C%20B.%20LOCALIZER%3A%20subcellular%20localization%20prediction%20of%20both%20plant%20and%20effector%20proteins%20in%20the%20plant%20cell%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sperschneider%2C%20J.%20Catanzariti%2C%20A.-M.%20DeBoer%2C%20K.%20Petre%2C%20B.%20LOCALIZER%3A%20subcellular%20localization%20prediction%20of%20both%20plant%20and%20effector%20proteins%20in%20the%20plant%20cell%202017)

[^Staehelin_et+al_2000_a]: Staehelin, C., Schultze, M., Tokuyasu, K., Poinsot, V., Prome, J.C., Kondorosi, E. and Kondorosi, A. (2000) N-deacetylation of Sinorhizobium meliloti Nod factors increases their stability in the Medicago sativa rhizosphere and decreases their biological activity. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 13, 72–79. [[Staehelin_et+al_deacetylationSinorhizobiumMelilotiNodFactors_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Schultze%2C%20M.%20Tokuyasu%2C%20K.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20N-deacetylation%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20Nod%20factors%20increases%20their%20stability%20in%20the%20Medicago%20sativa%20rhizosphere%20and%20decreases%20their%20biological%20activity%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Schultze%2C%20M.%20Tokuyasu%2C%20K.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20N-deacetylation%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20Nod%20factors%20increases%20their%20stability%20in%20the%20Medicago%20sativa%20rhizosphere%20and%20decreases%20their%20biological%20activity%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Schultze%2C%20M.%20Tokuyasu%2C%20K.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20N-deacetylation%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20Nod%20factors%20increases%20their%20stability%20in%20the%20Medicago%20sativa%20rhizosphere%20and%20decreases%20their%20biological%20activity%202000)

[^Tang_et+al_2016_a]: Tang, N., San Clemente, H., Roy, S., Becard, G., Zhao, B. and Roux, C. (2016) A survey of the gene repertoire of Gigaspora rosea unravels conserved features among glomeromycota for obligate biotrophy. Front. Microbiol. 7, 1–16. [[Tang_et+al_SurveyGeneRepertoireGigasporaRosea_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tang%2C%20N.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20A%20survey%20of%20the%20gene%20repertoire%20of%20Gigaspora%20rosea%20unravels%20conserved%20features%20among%20glomeromycota%20for%20obligate%20biotrophy%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tang%2C%20N.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20A%20survey%20of%20the%20gene%20repertoire%20of%20Gigaspora%20rosea%20unravels%20conserved%20features%20among%20glomeromycota%20for%20obligate%20biotrophy%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tang%2C%20N.%20San%20Clemente%2C%20H.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20A%20survey%20of%20the%20gene%20repertoire%20of%20Gigaspora%20rosea%20unravels%20conserved%20features%20among%20glomeromycota%20for%20obligate%20biotrophy%202016)

[^Tarazona_et+al_2015_a]: Tarazona, S., Furio-Tarı, P., Turra, D., Pietro, A. Di, Nueda, M.J., Ferrer, A. and Conesa, A. (2015) Data quality aware analysis of differential expression in RNA-seq with NOISeq R/Bioc package. Nucleic Acids Res. 43, e140. [[Tarazona_et+al_DataQualityAwareAnalysisDifferential_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tarazona%2C%20S.%20Furio-Tar%C4%B1%2C%20P.%20Turra%2C%20D.%20Pietro%2C%20A.Di%20Data%20quality%20aware%20analysis%20of%20differential%20expression%20in%20RNA-seq%20with%20NOISeq%20R/Bioc%20package%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tarazona%2C%20S.%20Furio-Tar%C4%B1%2C%20P.%20Turra%2C%20D.%20Pietro%2C%20A.Di%20Data%20quality%20aware%20analysis%20of%20differential%20expression%20in%20RNA-seq%20with%20NOISeq%20R/Bioc%20package%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tarazona%2C%20S.%20Furio-Tar%C4%B1%2C%20P.%20Turra%2C%20D.%20Pietro%2C%20A.Di%20Data%20quality%20aware%20analysis%20of%20differential%20expression%20in%20RNA-seq%20with%20NOISeq%20R/Bioc%20package%202015)

[^Tisserant_et+al_2013_a]: Tisserant, E., Malbreil, M., Kuo, A. et al. (2013) Genome of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the oldest plant symbiosis. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 110, 20117–20122. [[Tisserant_et+al_GenomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusProvides_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013)

[^Torrecillas_et+al_2012_a]: Torrecillas, E., Alguacil, M.M., Roldan, A. and Roldan, A. (2012) Host preferences of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonizing annual herbaceous plant species in semiarid Mediterranean prairies. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 78, 6180–6186. [[Torrecillas_et+al_HostPreferencesArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Torrecillas%2C%20E.%20Alguacil%2C%20M.M.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Host%20preferences%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonizing%20annual%20herbaceous%20plant%20species%20in%20semiarid%20Mediterranean%20prairies%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Torrecillas%2C%20E.%20Alguacil%2C%20M.M.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Host%20preferences%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonizing%20annual%20herbaceous%20plant%20species%20in%20semiarid%20Mediterranean%20prairies%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Torrecillas%2C%20E.%20Alguacil%2C%20M.M.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Roldan%2C%20A.%20Host%20preferences%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonizing%20annual%20herbaceous%20plant%20species%20in%20semiarid%20Mediterranean%20prairies%202012)

[^Trouvelot_et+al_1986_a]: Trouvelot, A., Kough, J.L. and Gianinazzi-Pearson, V. (1986) Mesure du taux de mycorhization VA d’un systeme radiculaire. Recherche de methodes d’estimation ayant une signification fonctionnelle. Physiol. Genet. Asp. mycorrhizae = Asp. Physiol. Genet. des mycorhizes Proc. 1st Eur. Symp. Mycorrhizae, Dijon, 1–5 July 1985. [[Trouvelot_et+al_MesureTauxMycorhizationVa_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Trouvelot%2C%20A.%20Kough%2C%20J.L.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Mesure%20du%20taux%20de%20mycorhization%20VA%20d%E2%80%99un%20systeme%20radiculaire.%20Recherche%20de%20methodes%20d%E2%80%99estimation%20ayant%20une%20signification%20fonctionnelle.%20Physiol.%20Genet.%20Asp.%20mycorrhizae%20%3D%20Asp%201986-07) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trouvelot%2C%20A.%20Kough%2C%20J.L.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Mesure%20du%20taux%20de%20mycorhization%20VA%20d%E2%80%99un%20systeme%20radiculaire.%20Recherche%20de%20methodes%20d%E2%80%99estimation%20ayant%20une%20signification%20fonctionnelle.%20Physiol.%20Genet.%20Asp.%20mycorrhizae%20%3D%20Asp%201986-07) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Trouvelot%2C%20A.%20Kough%2C%20J.L.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Mesure%20du%20taux%20de%20mycorhization%20VA%20d%E2%80%99un%20systeme%20radiculaire.%20Recherche%20de%20methodes%20d%E2%80%99estimation%20ayant%20une%20signification%20fonctionnelle.%20Physiol.%20Genet.%20Asp.%20mycorrhizae%20%3D%20Asp%201986-07)

[^Tsuzuki_et+al_2016_a]: Tsuzuki, S., Handa, Y., Takeda, N. and Kawaguchi, M. (2016) Strigolactoneinduced putative secreted protein 1 is required for the establishment of symbiosis by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 29, 277–286. [[Tsuzuki_et+al_StrigolactoneinducedPutativeSecretedProtein1_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tsuzuki%2C%20S.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Takeda%2C%20N.%20Kawaguchi%2C%20M.%20Strigolactoneinduced%20putative%20secreted%20protein%201%20is%20required%20for%20the%20establishment%20of%20symbiosis%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tsuzuki%2C%20S.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Takeda%2C%20N.%20Kawaguchi%2C%20M.%20Strigolactoneinduced%20putative%20secreted%20protein%201%20is%20required%20for%20the%20establishment%20of%20symbiosis%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tsuzuki%2C%20S.%20Handa%2C%20Y.%20Takeda%2C%20N.%20Kawaguchi%2C%20M.%20Strigolactoneinduced%20putative%20secreted%20protein%201%20is%20required%20for%20the%20establishment%20of%20symbiosis%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016)

[^Vandenkoornhuyse_et+al_2003_a]: Vandenkoornhuyse, P., Ridgway, K.P., Watson, I.J., Fitter, A.H. and Young, J.P.W. (2003) Co-existing grass species have distinctive arbuscular mycorrhizal communities. Mol. Ecol. 12, 3085–3095. [[Vandenkoornhuyse_et+al_existingGrassSpeciesHaveDistinctive_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vandenkoornhuyse%2C%20P.%20Ridgway%2C%20K.P.%20Watson%2C%20I.J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Co-existing%20grass%20species%20have%20distinctive%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vandenkoornhuyse%2C%20P.%20Ridgway%2C%20K.P.%20Watson%2C%20I.J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Co-existing%20grass%20species%20have%20distinctive%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vandenkoornhuyse%2C%20P.%20Ridgway%2C%20K.P.%20Watson%2C%20I.J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Co-existing%20grass%20species%20have%20distinctive%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%202003)

[^Vauthrin_et+al_1999_a]: Vauthrin, S., Mikes, V., Milat, M.L., Ponchet, M., Maume, B., Osman, H. and Blein, J.P. (1999) Elicitins trap and transfer sterols from micelles, liposomes and plant plasma membranes. Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1419, 335–342. [[Vauthrin_et+al_ElicitinsTrapTransferSterolsFrom_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vauthrin%2C%20S.%20Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Elicitins%20trap%20and%20transfer%20sterols%20from%20micelles%2C%20liposomes%20and%20plant%20plasma%20membranes%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vauthrin%2C%20S.%20Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Elicitins%20trap%20and%20transfer%20sterols%20from%20micelles%2C%20liposomes%20and%20plant%20plasma%20membranes%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vauthrin%2C%20S.%20Mikes%2C%20V.%20Milat%2C%20M.L.%20Ponchet%2C%20M.%20Elicitins%20trap%20and%20transfer%20sterols%20from%20micelles%2C%20liposomes%20and%20plant%20plasma%20membranes%201999)

[^Wagner_et+al_2012_a]: Wagner, G.P., Kin, K. and Lynch, V.J. (2012) Measurement of mRNA abundance using RNA-seq data: RPKM measure is inconsistent among samples. Theory Biosci. 131, 281–285. [[Wagner_et+al_MeasurementMrnaAbundanceUsingRna_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wagner%2C%20G.P.%20Kin%2C%20K.%20Lynch%2C%20V.J.%20Measurement%20of%20mRNA%20abundance%20using%20RNA-seq%20data%3A%20RPKM%20measure%20is%20inconsistent%20among%20samples%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagner%2C%20G.P.%20Kin%2C%20K.%20Lynch%2C%20V.J.%20Measurement%20of%20mRNA%20abundance%20using%20RNA-seq%20data%3A%20RPKM%20measure%20is%20inconsistent%20among%20samples%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wagner%2C%20G.P.%20Kin%2C%20K.%20Lynch%2C%20V.J.%20Measurement%20of%20mRNA%20abundance%20using%20RNA-seq%20data%3A%20RPKM%20measure%20is%20inconsistent%20among%20samples%202012)

[^Wawra_et+al_2016_a]: Wawra, S., Fesel, P., Widmer, H. et al. (2016) The fungal-specific b-glucanbinding lectin FGB1 alters cell-wall composition and suppresses glucantriggered immunity in plants. Nat. Commun. 7, 13188. [[Wawra_et+al_FungalspecificglucanbindingLectinFgb1Alters_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wawra%2C%20S.%20Fesel%2C%20P.%20Widmer%2C%20H.%20The%20fungal-specific%20b-glucanbinding%20lectin%20FGB1%20alters%20cell-wall%20composition%20and%20suppresses%20glucantriggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wawra%2C%20S.%20Fesel%2C%20P.%20Widmer%2C%20H.%20The%20fungal-specific%20b-glucanbinding%20lectin%20FGB1%20alters%20cell-wall%20composition%20and%20suppresses%20glucantriggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wawra%2C%20S.%20Fesel%2C%20P.%20Widmer%2C%20H.%20The%20fungal-specific%20b-glucanbinding%20lectin%20FGB1%20alters%20cell-wall%20composition%20and%20suppresses%20glucantriggered%20immunity%20in%20plants%202016)

[^Zipfel_2017_a]: Zipfel, C. and Oldroyd, G.E.D. (2017) Plant signalling in symbiosis and immunity. Nature, 543, 328–336. [[Zipfel_PlantSignallingSymbiosisImmunity_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zipfel%2C%20C.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Plant%20signalling%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zipfel%2C%20C.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Plant%20signalling%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zipfel%2C%20C.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Plant%20signalling%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%202017)

