[[Chandrasekaran_et+al_ImpactArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiPhotosynthesis_2019]]

# [Impact of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi on Photosynthesis, Water Status, and Gas Exchange of Plants Under Salt Stress–A Meta-Analysis](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6476944/)

## [[Murugesan Chandrasekaran]]; [[Mak Chanratana]]; [[Kiyoon Kim]] et al.

### 2019

## Abstract
Soil salinization is one of the most serious abiotic stress factors affecting plant productivity through reduction of soil water potential, decreasing the absorptive capacity of the roots for water and nutrients. A weighted meta-analysis was conducted to study the effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) inoculation in alleviating salt stress in C3 and C4 plants. We analyzed the salt stress influence on seven independent variables such as chlorophyll, leaf area, photosynthetic rate (Amax), stomatal conductance (Gs), transpiration rate (E), relative water content (RWC), and water use efficiency (WUE) on AMF inoculated plants. Responses were compared between C3 and C4 plants, AMF species, plant functional groups, level of salinity, and environmental conditions. ==Our results showed that AMF inoculated plants had a positive impact on gas exchange and water status under salt stress==. The total chlorophyll contents of C3 plants were higher than C4 plants. However, C3 plants responses regarding Gs, Amax, and E were more positive compared to C4 plants. The increase in Gs mainly maintained E and it explains the increase in Amax and increase in E. When the two major AMF species (Rhizophagus intraradices and Funnelliformis mosseae) were considered, the effect sizes of RWC and WUE in R. intraradices were lower than those in F. mosseae indicating that F. mosseae inoculated plants performed better under salt stress. In terms of C3 and C4 plant photosynthetic pathways, the effect size of C4 was lower than C3 plants indicating that AMF inoculation more effectively alleviated salt stress in C3 compared to C4 plants.

## Key concepts
#result/arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #result/mycorrhiza; #finding/c4_plant; #result/mycorrhizal; #claim/chlorophyll; #meta_analysis; #result/fungi; #result/arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #result/water_use_efficiency; #result/photosynthesis; #result/stomatal_conductance; #result/transpiration; #confidence_intervals; #result/symbiosis; #standard_deviation; #salt_tolerance; #mycorrhizae; #result/water_potential; #fungal; #arbuscular_mycorrhizae; #phragmites_australis; #photosynthetic_efficiency; #national_research_foundation

## Quote
> Though the total chlorophyll content was high in both C3 and C4 plant, the C3 plants had higher chlorophyll content compared to C4 plants


## Key points
- Salinity, especially in the very dry areas of the world, limits crop production seriously
- Tolerance and sensitivity to salt stress greatly vary among plant species but many studies have indicated that the decrease in growth of plants under saline conditions is linked to the decline in photosynthesis and related metabolic processes ([^Stepien_2006_a]) thereby affecting the other important biological activities such as cell growth ([^Munns_et+al_2006_a]; [^Geissler_et+al_2009_a])
- Keywords related to plant responses and salt stress include gas exchange, photosynthetic efficiency, stomatal conductance, transpiration, water use efficiency and water status, under the saline condition, salinity stress, and salt stress
- Irrespective of photosynthetic type, an overall positive effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) inoculation on gas exchange and water status under salt stress was observed in both C3 and C4 plants (Figure 1; Table 1)
- Though the total chlorophyll content was high in both C3 and C4 plant, the C3 plants had higher chlorophyll content compared to C4 plants
- C4 plants were tested for a possible compounding effect of categorical variables and found no significant difference between studies
- The effect sizes of stomatal conductance and relative water content were higher in C4 plants than C3 plants

## Synopsis
Especially in the very dry areas of the world, limits crop production seriously.
Up to date and to our knowledge, no comprehensive studies have yet been conducted to assess how gas exchange and water status are related in C3 and C4 photosynthetic plants and their response to AMF inoculation under saline condition.
A meta-analysis was conducted within over published studies spanning the period 1987–2017 dealing with plant gas exchange (Amax, Gs, and E) and water status and water use efficiency (WUE) responses toward AMF inoculation under salt stress.
Screening and selection were done on the searches in order to include studies containing quantitatively measured C3 and C4 plant responses after mycorrhizal inoculation under salt stress especially parameters on gas exchange and water status.
Fixed factors related to the responses of C3 and C4 plant gas exchange and water status after AMF inoculation under salt stress conditions were categorically analyzed.
Irrespective of photosynthetic type, an overall positive effect of AMF inoculation on gas exchange and water status under salt stress was observed in both C3 and C4 plants (Figure 1; Table 1).
Comparative gas exchange and water status responses of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) inoculated plants under salt stress.
In contrast to relative water content and stomatal conductance, AMF inoculated C3 plants showed significantly higher effect size values than C4 plants.
The C3 plants had a significant positive effect on plant species, plant family, plant group, growth habit, soil type, the level of salinity and experimental condition (P = 0.006).
Results showed that AMF has an overall positive effect on C3 and C4 plants gas exchange and water status under salt stress.
Across all studies, we found that an increase in Gs could explain the variation in E, which is higher than that of Amax, indicating that maintaining plant water status may the most important function under salt stress in AMF inoculated plants.
AMF associated with plant roots mediates improved hydraulic conductivity which could result in the better relative water content of plants even under environmental stress such as soil salinity ([^Kapoor_et+al_2008_a]).
Our meta-analysis synthesizes AMF plant responses under salt stress in terms of water status and gas exchange and the interaction of these factors.
Based on our data sets and the analysis, we conclude that the AMF inoculation increases the gas exchange performances and ameliorate the plant water status in plants under salt stress.


## Study subjects

### 1000 plant species
- This minimizes photorespiration and enhances the plant's utilization of water and nitrogen. ==There were at least 60 occasions of independent evolution leading to several thousand plant species diverging from their C3 lineage developing C4 photosynthetic pathway (Reyna-Llorens and Hibberd, 2017)==. C4 photosynthesis greatly minimizes photorespiration and allowing stomatal function while producing sugar in a more efficient way to that of C3 plants

### 40 plant host species
- Co-inoculation with more than one AMF species was categorized as mixed species inoculum. ==Plant species and plant family: There were 40 plant host species included for analysis spanning members of different families particularly Anacardiaceae, Asteraceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae, Lamiaceae, Liliaceae, Malvaceae, Moraceae, Poaceae, Rutaceae, Solanaceae, and Verbenaceae==. The plants were classified by using the PLANTS database of the USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service (http://plants.usda.gov/java/)

## Data analysis
- #method/chi_squared_distribution
- #method/random_effects_meta_analysis

## Findings
- The RWC and WUE had positive effect sizes (P < 0.0001) (Figure 1)
- The C3 plants also had a significant positive effect on plant species, plant family, plant group, growth habit, soil type, the level of salinity and experimental condition (P = 0.006)
- C4 plants were tested additionally for a possible compounding effect of categorical variables and found no significant difference between studies

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- Previous studies also showed that greater chlorophyll represents higher rates of photosynthesis and carbon fixation, sustaining AMF-plant symbiosis ([^Wright_et+al_1998_a]; [^Elhindi_et+al_2017_a]). ==This study also confirmed that the response of AMF plants to total chlorophyll response of plants is greater than Amax==, Gs, leaf area, and RWC
- AMF symbiosis to plant hosts results to formation of an extensive hyphal network that enables AMF plants to absorb water and nutrients facilitating better photosynthetic rate and water osmotic potential ([^Hoeksema_et+al_2010_a]; [^Veresoglou_et+al_2012_a]; [^Yang_et+al_2016_a]). ==The current study is in agreement with earlier work== ([^Augé_et+al_2008_a]) where Amax, E, and Gs parameters improved in relation to the degree of mycorrhizal inoculation over uninoculated plants experiencing damaging effects of salt stress

## Contributions
- In summary, our meta-analysis synthesizes AMF plant responses under salt stress in terms of water status and gas exchange and the interaction of these factors. Based on our data sets and the analysis, we conclude that the AMF inoculation not only increases the gas exchange performances but also ameliorate the plant water status in plants under salt stress. Mycorrhizal C3 plants more positively responded in terms of gas exchange compared to C4 plants. The increase in Gs primarily increased E under saline conditions. This increase in Gs could explain the increase in A and of the increase in E under salt stress and its role in the increase of A in C3 plants. Hence, it could be concluded that choosing appropriate AMF for a specific host plant could help alleviate salinity stress and will help use saline soils for the cultivation of crop plants. From the results of this study, it is obvious that F. mosseae is a preferred mycorrhizal partner invoking a positive response in C3 plants only to be followed by C4 plants.

## Limitations
- These results should be treated with caution due to low sample size. There were no significant differences for other experimental conditions and functional groups in terms of relative water content under soil salinity stress.
- Treat the results with caution due to low sample size) (Figure 2B). Categorical analysis of growth forms showed herbaceous plants with the lowest and grass with the highest effect size values in C3 plants. Whereas, in C4 plants, grasses and shrubs had the lowest and herbaceous plants had the highest effect size values (Figure 3B). However, these results are to be considered with caution due to low sample size. Among the families investigated, Fabaceae recorded the lowest while Poaceae had the highest effect size values in C3 plants (Figure 3C). There were no significant differences exhibited by other plant functional groups under salt stress. Other plant functional groups showed no significant differences under salt stress.
- Results of which are to be treated with caution due to low sample size. The C3 plants also had a significant positive effect on plant species, plant family, plant group, growth habit, soil type, the level of salinity and experimental condition (P = 0.006). Whereas, C4 plants had a significant positive effect only on soil type. Sandy soil had a high effect size value than those of loamy soil. AMF had a positive overall effect on photosynthetic rate under saline conditions. While no significant (P > 0.05) effect was observed in C3 plants, AMF had a significant positive effect on C4 plants under saline condition. Among AMF species, R. intraradices showed a significant increase in effect size in C4 plants. Hence, C4 plants were tested additionally for a possible compounding effect of categorical variables and found no significant difference between studies. However, in the case of photosynthetic rate, an opposite trend was observed with C3 plants showing significant variations and C4 plants (P > 0.05) showing no significant positive effect. Also, the level of salinity significantly influenced the photosynthetic rate of C4 plants. Among level salinity, moderate level of salinity in C4 plants had the highest effect size values compared to those of C3 plants (Figure 4B).

## Data and code
- Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2019.00457/full#supplementary-material


## References
[^Abdel_2011_a]: Abdel Latef A. A., Chaoxing H. (2011). Effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on growth, mineral nutrition, antioxidant enzymes activity and fruit yield of tomato grown under salinity stress. Sci. Hortic. 127, 228–233. 10.1016/j.scienta.2010.09.020 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Abdel_EffectArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiGrowth_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scienta.2010.09.020)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.scienta.2010.09.020)

[^Abdel_2014_a]: Abdel Latef A. A., Chaoxing H. (2014). Does the inoculation with Glomus mosseae improve salt tolerance in pepper plants? J. Plant Growth Regul. 33, 644–653. 10.1007/s00344-014-9414-4 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Abdel_DoesInoculationWithGlomusMosseae_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00344-014-9414-4)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00344-014-9414-4)

[^Abdel_2014_a]: Abdel Latef A. A., Miransari M. (2014). The role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in alleviation of salt stress, in Use of Microbes for the Alleviation of Soil Stresses Volume 2: Alleviation of Soil Stress by PGPR and Mycorrhizal Fungi. ed Miransari M. (New York, NY: Springer; ), 23–38. [Google Scholar] [[Abdel_RoleArbuscular_2014]] [OA](https://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Abdel%20Latef%20A.%20M%2C%20Miransari%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Abdel%20Latef%20A.%20M%2C%20Miransari%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%202014) [Scite](https://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Abdel%20Latef%20A.%20M%2C%20Miransari%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%202014)

[^Adams_et+al_1997_a]: Adams D. C., Gurevitch J., Rosenberg M. S. (1997). Resampling tests for meta-analysis of ecological data. Ecology 78, 1277–1283. 10.1890/0012-9658(1997)078[1277:RTFMAO]2.0.CO;2 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Adams_et+al_ResamplingTestsMetaanalysisEcologicalData_1997]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1890/0012-9658(1997)078[1277:RTFMAO]2.0.CO;2)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1890/0012-9658(1997)078[1277:RTFMAO]2.0.CO;2)

[^Al_2006_a]: Al-Garni S. M. S. (2006). Increasing NaCl-salt tolerance of a halophytic plant Phragmites australis by mycorrhizal symbiosis. Am. Eur. J. Agric. Environ. Sci. 1, 119–126. [Google Scholar] [[Al_IncreasingNaclsaltToleranceHalophyticPlant_2006]] [OA](https://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=S%2C%20Al-Garni%20S.M.%20Increasing%20NaCl-salt%20tolerance%20of%20a%20halophytic%20plant%20Phragmites%20australis%20by%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=S%2C%20Al-Garni%20S.M.%20Increasing%20NaCl-salt%20tolerance%20of%20a%20halophytic%20plant%20Phragmites%20australis%20by%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202006) [Scite](https://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=S%2C%20Al-Garni%20S.M.%20Increasing%20NaCl-salt%20tolerance%20of%20a%20halophytic%20plant%20Phragmites%20australis%20by%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202006)

[^Ali_et+al_2002_a]: Ali N. A., Bernal M. P., Ater M. (2002). Tolerance and bioaccumulation of copper in Phragmites australis and Zea mays. Plant Soil. 239, 103–111. 10.1023/A:1014995321560 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Ali_et+al_ToleranceBioaccumulationCopperPhragmitesAustralis_2002]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1014995321560)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1023/A:1014995321560)

[^Al_2000_a]: Al-Karaki G. N. (2000). Growth and mineral acquisition by mycorrhizal tomato grown under salt stress. Mycorrhiza 10, 51–4. 10.1007/s005720000055 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Al_GrowthMineralAcquisitionMycorrhizalTomato_2000]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s005720000055)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s005720000055)

[^Al_2010_a]: Al-Khaliel A. S. (2010). Effect of salinity stress on mycorrhizal association and growth response of peanut infected by Glomus mosseae. Plant Soil Environ. 56, 318–24. 10.17221/204/2009-PSE [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Al_EffectSalinityStressMycorrhizalAssociation_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.17221/204/2009-PSE)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.17221/204/2009-PSE)

[^Auge_2001_a]: Auge' R. M. (2001). Water relations, drought and vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Mycorrhiza 11, 3–42. 10.1007/s005720100097 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Auge_WaterRelationsDroughtVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_2001]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s005720100097)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s005720100097)

[^Augé_et+al_2008_a]: Augé R. M., Toler H. D., Sams C. E., Nasim G. (2008). Hydraulic conductance and water potential gradients in squash leaves showing mycorrhiza-induced increases in stomatal conductance. Mycorrhiza 18, 115–121. 10.1007/s00572-008-0162-9 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Augé_et+al_HydraulicConductanceWaterPotentialGradients_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-008-0162-9)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-008-0162-9)

[^Bethke_1992_a]: Bethke P. C., Drew M. C. (1992). Stomatal and non-stomatal components to inhibition of photosynthesis in leaves of Capsicum annum during progressive exposure to NaCl salinity. Plant Physiol. 99, 219–226. 10.1104/pp.99.1.219 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Bethke_StomatalstomatalComponentsInhibitionPhotosynthesis_1992]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.99.1.219)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1104/pp.99.1.219)

[^Caird_et+al_2007_a]: Caird M. A., Richards J. H., Donovan L. A. (2007). Nighttime stomatal conductance and transpiration in C3 and C4 plants. Plant Physiol. 143, 4–10. 10.1104/pp.106.092940 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Caird_et+al_NighttimeStomatalConductanceTranspirationC3_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1104/pp.106.092940)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1104/pp.106.092940)

[^Chandrasekaran_et+al_2016_a]: Chandrasekaran M., Kim K., Krishnamoorthy R., Walitang D., Sundaram S., Joe M., et al.. (2016). Mycorrhizal symbiotic efficiency on C3 and C4 plants under salinity stress – a meta-analysis. Front. Microbiol. 7:1246. 10.3389/fmicb.2016.01246 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Chandrasekaran_et+al_MycorrhizalSymbioticEfficiencyC3C4_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2016.01246)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fmicb.2016.01246)

[^Chandrasekaran_et+al_2014_a]: Chandrasekaran M., Sonia B., Hu S., Oh S. H., Sa T. (2014): A meta-analysis of arbuscular mycorrhizal effects on plants grown under salt stress. Mycorrhiza 24, 611–625. 10.1007/s00572-014-0582-7 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Chandrasekaran_et+al_MetaanalysisArbuscularMycorrhizalEffectsPlants_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-014-0582-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-014-0582-7)

[^Chapin_1991_a]: Chapin F. S. (1991). Effects of multiple environmental stresses on nutrient availability and use, in Response of Plant to Multiple Stresses, eds Mooney H. A., Winner W., Pell E. J. (San Diego, CA: Physiological Ecology Series Academic Press; ), 67–88. [Google Scholar] [[Chapin__1991]] [OA](https://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chapin%20F%20S%201991%20Effects%20of%20multiple%20environmental%20stresses%20on%20nutrient%20availability%20and%20use%20in%20Response%20of%20Plant%20to%20Multiple%20Stresses%20eds%20Mooney%20H%20A%20Winner%20W%20Pell%20E%20J%20San%20Diego%20CA%20Physiological%20Ecology%20Series%20Academic%20Press%20%206788%20Google%20Scholar) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chapin%20F%20S%201991%20Effects%20of%20multiple%20environmental%20stresses%20on%20nutrient%20availability%20and%20use%20in%20Response%20of%20Plant%20to%20Multiple%20Stresses%20eds%20Mooney%20H%20A%20Winner%20W%20Pell%20E%20J%20San%20Diego%20CA%20Physiological%20Ecology%20Series%20Academic%20Press%20%206788%20Google%20Scholar) [Scite](https://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chapin%20F%20S%201991%20Effects%20of%20multiple%20environmental%20stresses%20on%20nutrient%20availability%20and%20use%20in%20Response%20of%20Plant%20to%20Multiple%20Stresses%20eds%20Mooney%20H%20A%20Winner%20W%20Pell%20E%20J%20San%20Diego%20CA%20Physiological%20Ecology%20Series%20Academic%20Press%20%206788%20Google%20Scholar)

[^Chaves_et+al_2009_a]: Chaves M. M., Flexas J., Pinheiro C. (2009). Photosynthesis under drought and salt stress: regulation mechanisms from whole plant to cell. Ann. Bot. 103, 551–560. 10.1093/aob/mcn125 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Chaves_et+al_PhotosynthesisUnderDroughtSaltStress_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcn125)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/aob/mcn125)

[^Chen_et+al_2017_a]: Chen J., Zhang H., Zhang X., Tang M. (2017). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis alleviates salt stress in black locust through improved photosynthesis, water status, and K+/Na+ homeostasis. Front. Plant Sci. 8:1739. 10.3389/fpls.2017.01739 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Chen_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisAlleviatesSalt_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01739)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2017.01739)

[^Chinnusamy_et+al_2005_a]: Chinnusamy V., Jagendorf A., Zhu J. K. (2005). Understanding and improving salt tolerance in plants. Crop Sci. 45, 437–448. 10.2135/cropsci2005.0437 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Chinnusamy_et+al_UnderstandingImprovingSaltTolerancePlants_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.2135/cropsci2005.0437)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.2135/cropsci2005.0437)

[^Choe_et+al_2006_a]: Choe K., Toler H., Lee J., Ownley B., Stutz J., Moore J., et al. (2006). Mycorrhizal symbiosis and responses of sorghum plants to combined drought and salinity stresses. J. Plant Physiol. 163, 517–528. 10.1016/j.jplph.2005.05.003 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Choe_et+al_MycorrhizalSymbiosisResponsesSorghumPlants_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jplph.2005.05.003)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.jplph.2005.05.003)

[^Cooper_1998_a]: Cooper H. (1998). Synthesizing Research: A Guide for Literature Reviews. 3rd edn. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 216. [Google Scholar] [[Cooper_SynthesizingResearchGuideLiteratureReviews_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cooper%2C%20H.%20Synthesizing%20Research%3A%20A%20Guide%20for%20Literature%20Reviews%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cooper%2C%20H.%20Synthesizing%20Research%3A%20A%20Guide%20for%20Literature%20Reviews%201998) 

[^Derner_et+al_2003_a]: Derner J. D., Johnson H. B., Kimball B. A., Pinter P. J., Polley H. W., Tischler C. R., et al. (2003). Above and below-ground responses of C3 –C4 species mixtures to elevated CO2 and water availability. Global Change Biol. 9, 452–460. 10.1046/j.1365-2486.2003.00579.x [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Derner_et+al_AboveBelowgroundResponsesC3c4_2003]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2486.2003.00579.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1365-2486.2003.00579.x)

[^Elhindi_et+al_2017_a]: Elhindi K. M., El-Din A. S., Elgorban A. M. (2017). The impact of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in mitigating salt-induced adverse effects in sweet basil (Ocimum basilicum L.), Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 24, 170–179. 10.1016/j.sjbs.2016.02.010 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Elhindi_et+al_ImpactArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiMitigating_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sjbs.2016.02.010)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.sjbs.2016.02.010)

[^Evelin_et+al_2009_a]: Evelin H., Kapoor R., Giri B. (2009). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in alleviation of salt stress: a review. Ann. Bot. 104, 1263–1280. 10.1093/aob/mcp251 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Evelin_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiAlleviationSalt_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcp251)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/aob/mcp251)

[^Fuzy_et+al_2008_a]: Fuzy A., Biro B., Toth T., Hildebrandt U., Bothe H. (2008). Drought, but not salinity, determines the apparent effectiveness of halophytes colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. J. Plant Physiol. 165, 1181–1192. 10.1016/j.jplph.2007.08.010 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Fuzy_et+al_DroughtSalinityDeterminesApparentEffectiveness_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jplph.2007.08.010)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.jplph.2007.08.010)

[^Geissler_et+al_2009_a]: Geissler N., Hussin S., Koyro H. W. (2009). Interactive effects of NaCl salinity, elevated atmospheric CO2 concentration on growth, photosynthesis, water relations and chemical composition of the potential cash crop halophyte Aster tripolium L. Environ. Exp. Bot. 65, 220–231 [[Geissler_et+al_InteractiveEffectsNaclSalinityElevated_2009]] [OA](https://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=N.%2C%20Geissler%20S.%2C%20Hussin%20W%2C%20Koyro%20H.%20Interactive%20effects%20of%20NaCl%20salinity%2C%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20concentration%20on%20growth%2C%20photosynthesis%2C%20water%20relations%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20the%20potential%20cash%20crop%20halophyte%20Aster%20tripolium%20L%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N.%2C%20Geissler%20S.%2C%20Hussin%20W%2C%20Koyro%20H.%20Interactive%20effects%20of%20NaCl%20salinity%2C%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20concentration%20on%20growth%2C%20photosynthesis%2C%20water%20relations%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20the%20potential%20cash%20crop%20halophyte%20Aster%20tripolium%20L%202009) [Scite](https://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=N.%2C%20Geissler%20S.%2C%20Hussin%20W%2C%20Koyro%20H.%20Interactive%20effects%20of%20NaCl%20salinity%2C%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20concentration%20on%20growth%2C%20photosynthesis%2C%20water%20relations%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20the%20potential%20cash%20crop%20halophyte%20Aster%20tripolium%20L%202009)

[^10]: 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2008.11.001 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[1016/j.envexpbot.2008.11.001__0000]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2008.11.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2008.11.001)

[^Giri_et+al_2003_a]: Giri B., Kapoor R., Mukerji K. G. (2003). Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and salinity on growth, biomass, and mineral nutrition of Acacia auriculiformis. Biol. Fertil. Soils 38, 170–175. 10.1007/s00374-003-0636-z [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Giri_et+al_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiSalinity_2003]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-003-0636-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00374-003-0636-z)

[^Hajiboland_et+al_2010_a]: Hajiboland R., Aliasgharzadeh N., Laiegh S. F., Poschenreider C. (2010). Colonization with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi improves salinity tolerance of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) plants. Plant Soil 331, 313–327 [[Hajiboland_et+al_ColonizationWithArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2010]] [OA](https://engine.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=R.%2C%20Hajiboland%20N.%2C%20Aliasgharzadeh%20F.%2C%20Laiegh%20S.%20C%2C%20Poschenreider%20Colonization%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20improves%20salinity%20tolerance%20of%20tomato%20%28Solanum%20lycopersicum%20L.%29%20plants%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Hajiboland%20N.%2C%20Aliasgharzadeh%20F.%2C%20Laiegh%20S.%20C%2C%20Poschenreider%20Colonization%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20improves%20salinity%20tolerance%20of%20tomato%20%28Solanum%20lycopersicum%20L.%29%20plants%202010) [Scite](https://engine.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=R.%2C%20Hajiboland%20N.%2C%20Aliasgharzadeh%20F.%2C%20Laiegh%20S.%20C%2C%20Poschenreider%20Colonization%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20improves%20salinity%20tolerance%20of%20tomato%20%28Solanum%20lycopersicum%20L.%29%20plants%202010)

[^10]: 10.1007/s11104-009-0255-z [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[1007/s11104-009-0255-z__0000]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-009-0255-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-009-0255-z)

[^Harris_et+al_2018_a]: Harris-Valle C., Esqueda M., Gutiérrez A., Castellanos A. E., Gardea A. A., Berbara R. (2018). Physiological response of Cucurbita pepo var. pepo mycorrhized by Sonoran Desert native arbuscular fungi to drought and salinity stresses. Braz. J. Microbiol. 49, 45–53. 10.1016/j.bjm.2017.04.005 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Harris_et+al_PhysiologicalResponseCucurbitaPepo_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bjm.2017.04.005)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.bjm.2017.04.005)

[^Hoeksema_et+al_2010_a]: Hoeksema J. D., Chaudhary V. B., Gehring C. A., Johnson N. C., Karst J., Koide R. T., et al. (2010): A meta-analysis of context-dependency in plant response to inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi. Ecol. Lett. 13, 394–407. 10.1111/j.1461-0248.2009.01430.x. [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Hoeksema_et+al_MetaanalysisContextdependencyPlantResponseInoculation_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2009.01430.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2009.01430.x)

[^Jahromi_et+al_2008_a]: Jahromi F., Aroca R., Porcel R., Ruiz-Lozano J. M. (2008). Influence of salinity on the in vitro development of Glomus intraradices and on the in vivo physiological and molecular responses of mycorrhizal lettuce plants. Microbial. Ecol. 55, 45–53. 10.1007/s00248-007-9249-7 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Jahromi_et+al_InfluenceSalinityVitroDevelopmentGlomus_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-007-9249-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00248-007-9249-7)

[^Jones_1998_a]: Jones H. G. (1998). Stomatal control of photosynthesis and transpiration. J. Exp. Bot. 49, 387–398. 10.1093/jxb/49.Special_Issue.387 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Jones_StomatalControlPhotosynthesisTranspiration_1998]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/49.Special_Issue.387)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jxb/49.Special_Issue.387)

[^Kapoor_et+al_2008_a]: Kapoor R., Sharma D., Bhatnagar A. K. (2008). Arbuscular mycorrhizae in micropropagation systems and their potential applications. Sci. Horticult. 116, 227–239. 10.1016/j.scienta.2008.02.002 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Kapoor_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeMicropropagationSystemsTheir_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scienta.2008.02.002)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.scienta.2008.02.002)

[^Kothari_et+al_1990_a]: Kothari S. K., Marschner H., George E. (1990). Effect of VA mycorrhizal fungi and rhizosphere microorganism on root and shoot morphology, growth and water relations of maize. New Phytol. 116, 303–311. 10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb04718.x [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Kothari_et+al_EffectVaMycorrhizalFungiRhizosphere_1990]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb04718.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.1990.tb04718.x)

[^Koyro_2006_a]: Koyro H. W. (2006): Effect of salinity on growth, photosynthesis, water relations and solute composition of the potential cash crop halophyte Plantago coronopus (L.). Environ. Exp. Bot. 56, 136–146. 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.02.001. [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Koyro_EffectSalinityGrowthPhotosynthesisWater_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.02.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.02.001)

[^Kumar_et+al_2010_a]: Kumar A., Sharma S., Mishra S. (2010). Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and salinity on seedling growth, solute accumulation and mycorrhizal dependency of Jatropha curcas L. J. Plant Growth Regul. 29, 297–306. 10.1007/s00344-009-9136-1 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Kumar_et+al_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizalamFungi_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00344-009-9136-1)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00344-009-9136-1)

[^Lehmann_2015_a]: Lehmann A., Rillig M. C. (2015), Arbuscular mycorrhizal contribution to copper, manganese iron nutrient concentrations in crops: a meta-analysis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 81, 147–158. 10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.013 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Lehmann_ArbuscularMycorrhizalContributionCopperManganese_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.013)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.013)

[^Lehmann_et+al_2014_a]: Lehmann A., Veresoglou S. D., Leifheit E. F., Rillig M. C. (2014). Arbuscular mycorrhizal influence on zinc nutrition in crop plants: a meta-analysis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 69, 123–131. 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.11.001 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Lehmann_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalInfluenceZincNutrition_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.11.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.11.001)

[^Lu_et+al_2009_a]: Lu K. X., Cao B. H., Feng X. P., He Y., Jiang D. A. (2009). Photosynthetic response of salt-tolerant and sensitive soybean varieties. Photosynthetica 47, 381–387. 10.1007/s11099-009-0059-7 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Lu_et+al_PhotosyntheticResponseSalttolerantSensitiveSoybean_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11099-009-0059-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11099-009-0059-7)

[^Maggio_et+al_2004_a]: Maggio A., Pascale S. D., Angelino G., Ruggiero C., Barbieri G. (2004). Physiological response of tomato to saline irrigation in longterm salinized soils. Eur. J. Agron. 21, 149–159. 10.1016/S1161-0301(03)00092-3 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Maggio_et+al_PhysiologicalResponseTomatoSalineIrrigation_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1161-0301(03)00092-3)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/S1161-0301(03)00092-3)

[^Munns_et+al_2006_a]: Munns R., James R. A., Lauchli A. (2006). Approaches to increasing the salt tolerance of wheat and other cereals. J. Exp. Bot. 57, 1025–1043. 10.1093/jxb/erj100 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Munns_et+al_ApproachesIncreasingSaltToleranceWheat_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erj100)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jxb/erj100)

[^Munns_2008_a]: Munns R., Tester M. (2008). Mechanisms of salinity tolerance. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 59, 651–681. 10.1146/annurev.arplant.59.032607.092911 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Munns_MechanismsSalinityTolerance_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.arplant.59.032607.092911)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1146/annurev.arplant.59.032607.092911)

[^Niu_et+al_2006_a]: Niu S., Zhang Y., Yuan Z., Liu W., Huang J., Wan S. (2006). Effects of interspecific competition and nitrogen seasonally on the photosynthetic characteristics of C3 and C4 grasses. Environ. Exp. Bot. 57, 270–277. 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.06.004 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Niu_et+al_EffectsInterspecificCompetitionNitrogenSeasonally_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.06.004)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2005.06.004)

[^Pan_et+al_2016_a]: Pan Y. Q., Guo H., Wang S. M., Zhao B., Zhang J. L., Ma Q., et al.. (2016). The photosynthesis, Na+/K+ homeostasis and osmotic adjustment of Atriplex canescens in Response to Salinity, Front. Plant Sci. 7:848. 10.3389/fpls.2016.00848 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Pan_et+al_PhotosynthesisNakHomeostasisOsmoticAdjustment_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.00848)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2016.00848)

[^Pellegrino_et+al_2015_a]: Pellegrino E., Opik M., Bonari E., Ercoli L. (2015). Responses of wheat to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: a meta-analysis of field studies from 1975 to 2013. Soil Biol. Biochem. 84, 210–217. 10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.02.020 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Pellegrino_et+al_ResponsesWheatArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.02.020)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.02.020)

[^Porcel_et+al_2012_a]: Porcel R., Aroca R., Ruiz-Lozano J. M. (2012). Salinity stress alleviation using arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: a review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 32, 181–200. 10.1007/s13593-011-0029-x [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Porcel_et+al_SalinityStressAlleviationUsingArbuscular_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13593-011-0029-x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s13593-011-0029-x)

[^Reyna_2017_a]: Reyna-Llorens I., Hibberd J. M. (2017). Recruitment of pre-existing networks during the evolution of C4 photosynthesis. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 372:20160386. 10.1098/rstb.2016.0386 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Reyna_RecruitmentexistingNetworksDuringEvolution_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2016.0386)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1098/rstb.2016.0386)

[^Rosenberg_et+al_2000_a]: Rosenberg N. J., Adams D. C., Gurevitch J. (2000). MetaWin: Statistical Software for Meta-Analysis Version 2.0. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer. [Google Scholar] [[Rosenberg_et+al_MetawinStatisticalSoftwareMetaanalysisVersion_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=J.%2C%20Rosenberg%20N.%20C.%2C%20Adams%20D.%20J%2C%20Gurevitch%20MetaWin%3A%20Statistical%20Software%20for%20Meta-Analysis%20Version%202.0%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=J.%2C%20Rosenberg%20N.%20C.%2C%20Adams%20D.%20J%2C%20Gurevitch%20MetaWin%3A%20Statistical%20Software%20for%20Meta-Analysis%20Version%202.0%202000) 

[^Sheng_et+al_2008_a]: Sheng M., Tang M., Chan H., Yang B., Zhang F., Huang Y. (2008). Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizae on photosynthesis and water status of maize plants under salt stress. Mycorrhiza 18, 287–296. 10.1007/s00572-008-0180-7 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Sheng_et+al_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizaePhotosynthesisWater_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-008-0180-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-008-0180-7)

[^Stepien_2006_a]: Stepien P., Klobus G. (2006). Water relations and photosynthesis in Cucumis sativus L. leaves under salt stress. Biol. Plantarum 50, 610–6. 10.1007/s10535-006-0096-z [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Stepien_WaterRelationsPhotosynthesisCucumisSativus_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10535-006-0096-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s10535-006-0096-z)

[^Talaat_2014_a]: Talaat N. B., Shawky B. T. (2014). Protective effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) Plants exposed to salinity. Environ. Exp. Bot. 98, 20–31. 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2013.10.005 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Talaat_ProtectiveEffectsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2013.10.005)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.envexpbot.2013.10.005)

[^Tang_et+al_2009_a]: Tang J., Xu L., Chen X., Hu S. (2009). Interaction between C4 barnyard grass and C3 upland rice under elevated CO2: Impact of mycorrhizae. Acta Oecol. 35, 227–235. 10.1016/j.actao.2008.10.005 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Tang_et+al_InteractionBetweenC4BarnyardGrass_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actao.2008.10.005)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.actao.2008.10.005)

[^Teakle_et+al_2006_a]: Teakle N. L., Real D., Colmer T. D. (2006). Growth and ion relations in response to combined salinity and waterlogging in the perennial forage legumes Lotus corniculatus and Lotus tenuis. Plant Soil. 289, 369–383. 10.1007/s11104-006-9146-8 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Teakle_et+al_GrowthRelationsResponseCombinedSalinity_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-006-9146-8)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-006-9146-8)

[^Treseder_2004_a]: Treseder K. K. (2004). The extent of mycorrhizal colonization of roots and its influence on plant growth and phosphorus content. Plant Soil. 371, 1–13. 10.1007/s11104-013-1681-5 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Treseder_ExtentMycorrhizalColonizationRootsInfluence_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-013-1681-5)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-013-1681-5)

[^Veresoglou_et+al_2012_a]: Veresoglou S. D., Menexes G., Rillig M. C. (2012). Do arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi affect the allometric partition of host plant biomass to shoots and roots? A meta-analysis of studies from 1990 to 2010. Mycorrhiza 22, 227–35. 10.1007/s00572-011-0398-7 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Veresoglou_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiAffectAllometric_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-011-0398-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00572-011-0398-7)

[^Wand_et+al_1999_a]: Wand S. J., Midgley G. F., Jones M. H., Curtis P. S. (1999). Response of wild C4 and C3 (Poaceae) species to elevated atmospheric CO2 concentration: a meta analytic test of current theories and perceptions. Global Change Biol. 5, 723–41. 10.1046/j.1365-2486.1999.00265.x [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Wand_et+al_ResponseWildC4C3poaceae_1999]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2486.1999.00265.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1365-2486.1999.00265.x)

[^Way_et+al_2014_a]: Way D. A., Katul G. G., Manzoni S., Vico G. (2014). Increasing water use efficiency along the C3 to C4 evolutionary pathway: a stomatal optimization perspective. J. Exp. Bot. 65, 3683–3693. 10.1093/jxb/eru205 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Way_et+al_IncreasingWaterEfficiencyAlongC3_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/eru205)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jxb/eru205)

[^Weber_2010_a]: Weber A. P. M., Caemmerer S. V. (2010). Plastid transport and metabolism of C3 and C4 plants comparative analysis and possible biotechnological exploration. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 13, 257–265. 10.1016/j.pbi.2010.01.007 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Weber_PlastidTransportMetabolismC3C4_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pbi.2010.01.007)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.pbi.2010.01.007)

[^Wright_et+al_1998_a]: Wright D. P., Read D. J., Scholes J. D. (1998). Mycorrhizal sink strength influences whole plant carbon balance of Trifolium repens L. Plant Cell Environ. 21, 881–91. 10.1046/j.1365-3040.1998.00351.x [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Wright_et+al_MycorrhizalSinkStrengthInfluencesWhole_1998]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-3040.1998.00351.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1046/j.1365-3040.1998.00351.x)

[^Wu_2010_a]: Wu Q. S., Zou Y. N. (2010). Beneficial roles of arbuscular mycorrhizas in citrus seedlings at temperature stress. Sci. Hortic. 125, 289–293. 10.1016/j.scienta.2010.04.001 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Wu_BeneficialRolesArbuscularMycorrhizasCitrus_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scienta.2010.04.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.scienta.2010.04.001)

[^Yan_et+al_2016_a]: Yan W., Zhong Y., Shangguan Z. (2016). A meta-analysis of leaf gas exchange and water status responses to drought. Sci. Rep. 6:20917. 10.1038/srep20917 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Yan_et+al_MetaanalysisLeafExchangeWaterStatus_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep20917)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/srep20917)

[^Yang_et+al_2015_a]: Yang H., Zhang Q., Dai Y., Liu Q., Tang J., Bian X., et al. (2015). Effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on plant growth depend on root system: a meta-analysis. Plant Soil. 389, 361–374. 10.1007/s11104-014-2370-8 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Yang_et+al_EffectsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiPlant_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-014-2370-8)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-014-2370-8)

[^Yang_et+al_2014_a]: Yang H. S., Dai Y. J., Wang X. H., Zhang Q., Zhu L. Q., Bian X. M. (2014). Meta-analysis of interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and biotic stressors. Sci. World J. 2014:746507. 10.1155/2014/746506 [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Yang_et+al_MetaanalysisInteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizal_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1155/2014/746506)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1155/2014/746506)

[^Yang_et+al_2016_a]: Yang H. S., Xu J., Guo Y., Koide R. T., Dai Y., Xu M., et al. (2016). Predicting plant response to arbuscular mycorrhizas: the role of host functional traits, Fungal Ecol. 20, 79–83. 10.1016/j.funeco.2015.12.001 [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Yang_et+al_PredictingPlantResponseArbuscularMycorrhizas_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.funeco.2015.12.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.funeco.2015.12.001)

[^Zhang_2013_a]: Zhang J. L., Shi H. (2013). Physiological and molecular mechanisms of plant salt tolerance. Photosynth. Res. 115, 1–22. 10.1007/s11120-013-9813-6 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Zhang_PhysiologicalMolecularMechanismsPlantSalt_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11120-013-9813-6)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11120-013-9813-6)

[^Zhu_2001_a]: Zhu J. K. (2001). Plant salt tolerance. Trends Plant Sci. 6, 66–71. 10.1016/S1360-1385(00)01838-0 [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Zhu_PlantSaltTolerance_2001]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1360-1385(00)01838-0)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/S1360-1385(00)01838-0)

[^Zhu_et+al_2010_a]: Zhu X. C., Song F. B., Xu H. W. (2010). Arbuscular mycorrhizae improve low temp stress in maize via alterations in host water status and photosynthesis. Plant Soil. 331, 129–137. 10.1007/s11104-009-0239-z [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Zhu_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeImproveTempStress_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-009-0239-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-009-0239-z)

[^Zuccarini_2007_a]: Zuccarini P. (2007). Mycorrhizal infection ameliorates chlorophyll content and nutrient uptake of lettuce exposed to saline irrigation. Plant Soil Environ. 53, 283–289. 10.17221/2209-PSE [CrossRef] [Google Scholar] [[Zuccarini_MycorrhizalInfectionAmelioratesChlorophyllContent_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.17221/2209-PSE)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.17221/2209-PSE)

