[[Cavagnaro_et+al_RoleArbuscularMycorrhizasReducingSoil_2015]]

# [The role of arbuscular mycorrhizas in reducing soil nutrient loss](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2015.03.004)

## [[Timothy R. Cavagnaro]]; [[S. Franz Bender]]; [[Hamid R. Asghari]] et al.

### 2015

## Abstract
==Substantial amounts of nutrients are lost from soils== via leaching and as gaseous emissions. These losses can be environmentally damaging and expensive in terms of lost agricultural production. Plants have evolved many traits to optimize nutrient acquisition, including the formation of arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM), associations of plant roots with fungi that acquire soil nutrients. There is emerging evidence that AM have the ability to reduce nutrient loss from soils by enlarging the nutrient interception zone and preventing nutrient loss after rain-induced leaching events. Until recently, this important ecosystem service of AM had been largely overlooked. Here ====we review the role of AM== in reducing nutrient loss== and conclude that this role cannot be ignored if we are to increase global food production in an environmentally sustainable manner.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizas; #finding/leaching; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #nitrogen; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #phosphorus; #claim/soil_nutrient; #ecosystem_service; #symbiosis; #nitrous_oxide; #organic_material; #root_zone; #glomus

## Quote
> Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: fungi belonging to the Glomeromycota that form AM with the roots of most terrestrial plant species


## Key points
- Nutrient loss from soil Crops take up approximately only half of the nutrients in applied chemical fertilizers, with the remainder at risk of being lost to production [^1]
- Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF): fungi belonging to the Glomeromycota that form AM with the roots of most terrestrial plant species
- Concluding remarks: AM and nutrient loss – the way forward AM can have a significant role in reducing the loss of N and P from soil
- This is an important but largely overlooked ecosystem service provided by AM
- Excess application of P fertilizers may be especially problematic in this context as, in addition to the higher levels of nutrients being applied, AM colonization of roots is reduced with increased P supply [67–69]
- There is clear evidence that arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) can help plants acquire nutrients including P, Zn, ammonium (NH4+), nitrate (NO3À), copper (Cu), and potassium (K) [^18],[^19],[^20]; for example, up to 90% of plant P and 20% of plant N can be provided by AMF, estimates vary among studies and study systems
- We expect the relative contribution of AM to the reduction of nutrient loss to be highest at low nutrient availability, when the effects of AM are expected

## Synopsis

### The role of arbuscular mycorrhizas in reducing soil nutrient loss
There is emerging evidence that AM have the ability to reduce nutrient loss from soils by enlarging the nutrient interception zone and preventing nutrient loss after rain-induced leaching events
Until recently, this important ecosystem service of AM had been largely overlooked.
In addition to improving plant nutrient acquisition, there is emerging evidence that AM have the ability to reduce nutrient loss from soils by enlarging the nutrient interception zone and preventing nutrient loss after raininduced leaching events.
Effluent (2) Root and AMF immobilizaƟon (5) Enhanced soil aggregaƟon (6) Leached nutrients

### TRENDS in Plant Science
Enhance plant N acquisition in many situations [^30], which in turn may help reduce N loss from the soil.
A large-scale correlative field study showed that AMF abundance was a strong predictor of total N leached in agricultural land-use systems [^38].
Apart from this example, field evidence for the potential for AM to reduce N loss via leaching is scarce.
This presents a challenge in the study of the role of AMF in soil N cycling
This is because the establishment of non-mycorrhizal treatments in experiments usually involves sterilization of the soil and back inoculation with bacterial filtrates.
It was found that mycorrhizal tomato root systems dramatically reduced NO3À loss via leaching
This large reduction in N loss may have been due to either an inherently high efficiency of the AM formed by tomato to

### Low High
Source/input Organic matter mineralization/ ammonification; dissimilatory nitrate reduction; fertilizer addition.
Plant and microbial immobilization; bound to soil particles or formation of precipitates/complexes, which may be leached; nitrification yielding NO3À Plant and microbial immobilization; leaching; denitrification giving rise to gaseous forms of N; dissimilatory nitrate reduction.
Immobilized by AMF but less so than NH4+; impacts of AMF on soil water relations

### Dissolved organic N
Very low Organic matter decomposition; extracellular enzyme production; root exudation, manure application, animal and microbial excretion.
Organic matter mineralization; fertilizer addition; desorption from soil particles; solubilization of phosphate minerals.
Plant and microbial immobilization; bound to soil particles or formation of precipitates/complexes, which may be leached.
AMF may promote mineralization and can immobilize the product (NH4+); direct uptake.
Organic matter decomposition; mineral weathering, extracellular enzyme production; root exudation, manure application, animal and microbial excretion.
AMF promote mineralization and can immobilize the product; involvement in solubilization of non-plant-available compounds; impact of AMF on soil water relations

### Clover in microcosms
Experiment 1: approximately 2.7 times reduction in content of P leached with AM under low P conditions.
Experiment 2: approximately 2.4 times reduction in content of P leached with AM under low P conditions.
No difference where soil P was high.
7.5% and 60% reductions in loss of NH4+ and inorganic P, respectively, from AM microcosms.
7.5, 3, and 1.4 times reductions in NH4+, NO3À, and P concentrations in leachate, respectively.
Up to 65–80% reduction in NH4+, NO3À, and inorganic P content of leachates with mycorrhizal Encelia californica but not R. integrifolia.
40 times reduction in N loss via leaching of NO3À.
No change in NH4+ loss via leaching with AM

### Grassland microcosm with red clover
Reduction by 31% and 24% of total and unreactive P leaching, respectively, with AM. Up to 90% of P leached in unreactive form.
While total P leaching was higher in the presence of AMF, again leaching of nonreactive P compounds was reduced
This example highlights the importance of considering nutrient losses in different chemical forms, as is the case for N.
Excess application of P fertilizers may be especially problematic in this context as, in addition to the higher levels of nutrients being applied, AM colonization of roots is reduced with increased P supply [67–69]
To this end, a reduction in the formation of AM is likely to be one of the reasons for greater levels of P loss from fertilized ecosystems [^35].
The authors expect the relative contribution of AM to the reduction of nutrient loss to be highest at low nutrient availability, when the effects of AM are expected

### Management intensity and nutrient addiƟons
In terms of total amounts, the contribution of AM to the reduction of nutrient loss will be highest at intermediate management intensity and soil fertility, where nutrient loss would be expected to occur in significant amounts but AM abundance remains sufficient to reduce it (Figure 2).
It has been proposed that nutrient stoichiometry, especially the N/P ratio, can have a significant impact on AM functioning
In these studies the functioning of AM is evaluated by looking at effects on plant growth and nutrition.
Due to the reductionist nature of many experiments studying AM effects on nutrient cycling, there is a strong need to further investigate the interactions of AMF with other soil biota and test how they jointly influence nutrient loss from soil.
The authors consider the potential for AM to reduce nutrient loss from soils to be an important ecosystem service that is ripe for further detailed mechanistic investigation

## Findings
- There is clear evidence that AMF can help plants acquire nutrients including P, Zn, ammonium (NH4+), nitrate (NO3À), copper (Cu), and potassium (K) [^18],[^19],[^20]; for example, up to 90% of plant P and 20% of plant N can be provided by AMF, although estimates vary among studies and study systems
- In this study a significant reduction (45%) in the leaching of dissolved organic N compounds was also found
- Up to 65–80% reduction in NH4+, NO3À, and inorganic P content of leachates with mycorrhizal Encelia californica but not R. integrifolia
- 24.3% reduction in total N leached with AM during two growing seasons
- Reduction by 31% and 24% of total and unreactive P leaching, respectively, with AM
- Up to 90% of P leached in unreactive form
- NH4+ leaching reduced by 69% with AM, reduction of dissolved organic N leaching by 24% with AM in one soil type only
- No effect on NO3 leaching. 40% increase and decrease in NO3À and NH4+ leaching, respectively, with AM. 20% increase of unreactive P leaching with AM and no effect on dissolved inorganic P
- By contrast, in another study comprising two independent greenhouse experiments using either a mutant/wild type pair of tomatoes (different from those used by [^7]) or sterilized and re-inoculated soil to manipulate the presence of AMF [^44], fluxes of N2O were 33% and 42% higher where plants had formed a reduced or no association with AMF, in the two experiments respectively
- Only a small percentage of soil P is available to plants, while up to 90% of P can be effectively rendered unavailable via precipitation reactions in the soil or sorption to mineral soil particles and/or organic matter [^55],[^56],[^57]

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- While there are clear examples of AM reducing loss of N via leaching, at least one study showed the ==opposite effect [^39]. Interestingly, in this study red clover was much more abundant in mycorrhizal grassland microcosms and the amount of NO3À leaching may be related to the fact that the clover was fixing N== (which could subsequently be lost by leaching)

## Future work
- Further research efforts should be directed toward the identification of conditions and measures suitable to maximize AM benefits in agroecosystems. It will be important to consider the impact of other management practices that help to reduce nutrient loss, such as the use of cover crops and optimizing the timing of fertilizer application. In addition to focusing on the fate of inorganic N and P loss in mineral N forms, it is clear that there is a need to consider loss in organic forms. The processes underlying the involvement of AM in the reduction of loss of organic nutrients require further investigation as little is known about the utilization of organic compounds by AM and whether these effects are direct or indirect via associated microorganisms.


## References
[^1]: Liu, J. et al. (2010) A high-resolution assessment on global nitrogen flows in cropland. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 107, 8035–8040 [[Liu_HighresolutionAssessmentGlobalNitrogenFlows_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20high-resolution%20assessment%20on%20global%20nitrogen%20flows%20in%20cropland%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20high-resolution%20assessment%20on%20global%20nitrogen%20flows%20in%20cropland%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liu%2C%20J.%20A%20high-resolution%20assessment%20on%20global%20nitrogen%20flows%20in%20cropland%202010)

[^2]: Adesemoye, A.O. and Kloepper, J.W. (2009) Plant–microbes interactions in enhanced fertilizer-use efficiency. Appl. Microb. Biotech. 85, 1–12 [[Adesemoye_PlantmicrobesInteractionsEnhancedFertilizerEfficiency_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Adesemoye%2C%20A.O.%20Kloepper%2C%20J.W.%20Plant%E2%80%93microbes%20interactions%20in%20enhanced%20fertilizer-use%20efficiency%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Adesemoye%2C%20A.O.%20Kloepper%2C%20J.W.%20Plant%E2%80%93microbes%20interactions%20in%20enhanced%20fertilizer-use%20efficiency%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Adesemoye%2C%20A.O.%20Kloepper%2C%20J.W.%20Plant%E2%80%93microbes%20interactions%20in%20enhanced%20fertilizer-use%20efficiency%202009)

[^3]: Herzog, F. et al. (2008) Environmental cross-compliance mitigates nitrogen and phosphorus pollution from Swiss agriculture. Environ. Sci. Pol. 11, 655–668 [[Herzog_EnvironmentalCrosscomplianceMitigatesNitrogenPhosphorus_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Herzog%2C%20F.%20Environmental%20cross-compliance%20mitigates%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20pollution%20from%20Swiss%20agriculture%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Herzog%2C%20F.%20Environmental%20cross-compliance%20mitigates%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20pollution%20from%20Swiss%20agriculture%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Herzog%2C%20F.%20Environmental%20cross-compliance%20mitigates%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20pollution%20from%20Swiss%20agriculture%202008)

[^4]: Sims, J.T. et al. (1998) Phosphorus loss in agricultural drainage: historical perspective and current research. J. Envion. Qual. 27, 277–293 [[Sims_PhosphorusLossAgriculturalDrainageHistorical_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sims%2C%20J.T.%20Phosphorus%20loss%20in%20agricultural%20drainage%3A%20historical%20perspective%20and%20current%20research%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sims%2C%20J.T.%20Phosphorus%20loss%20in%20agricultural%20drainage%3A%20historical%20perspective%20and%20current%20research%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sims%2C%20J.T.%20Phosphorus%20loss%20in%20agricultural%20drainage%3A%20historical%20perspective%20and%20current%20research%201998)

[^5]: Carstensen, J. et al. (2014) Deoxygenation of the Baltic Sea during the last century. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 111, 5628–5633 [[Carstensen_DeoxygenationBalticSeaDuringLast_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Carstensen%2C%20J.%20Deoxygenation%20of%20the%20Baltic%20Sea%20during%20the%20last%20century%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carstensen%2C%20J.%20Deoxygenation%20of%20the%20Baltic%20Sea%20during%20the%20last%20century%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Carstensen%2C%20J.%20Deoxygenation%20of%20the%20Baltic%20Sea%20during%20the%20last%20century%202014)

[^6]: Bender, S.F. et al. (2015) Mycorrhizal effects on nutrient cycling, nutrient leaching and N2O production in experimental grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 80, 282–292 [[Bender_MycorrhizalEffectsNutrientCyclingNutrient_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%2C%20nutrient%20leaching%20and%20N2O%20production%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%2C%20nutrient%20leaching%20and%20N2O%20production%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%2C%20nutrient%20leaching%20and%20N2O%20production%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202015)

[^7]: Cavagnaro, T.R. et al. (2012) Arbuscular mycorrhizas and their role in plant growth, nitrogen interception and soil gas efflux in an organic production system. Plant Soil 353, 181–194 [[Cavagnaro_ArbuscularMycorrhizasTheirRolePlant_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20and%20their%20role%20in%20plant%20growth%2C%20nitrogen%20interception%20and%20soil%20gas%20efflux%20in%20an%20organic%20production%20system%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20and%20their%20role%20in%20plant%20growth%2C%20nitrogen%20interception%20and%20soil%20gas%20efflux%20in%20an%20organic%20production%20system%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20and%20their%20role%20in%20plant%20growth%2C%20nitrogen%20interception%20and%20soil%20gas%20efflux%20in%20an%20organic%20production%20system%202012)

[^8]: Butterbach-Bahl, K. et al. (2014) Nitrous oxide emissions from soils: how well do we understand the processes and their controls? Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B: Biol. Sci. 368, 20130122 [[Butterbach-Bahl_NitrousOxideEmissionsFromSoils_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Butterbach-Bahl%2C%20K.%20Nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20from%20soils%3A%20how%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20processes%20and%20their%20controls%3F%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Butterbach-Bahl%2C%20K.%20Nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20from%20soils%3A%20how%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20processes%20and%20their%20controls%3F%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Butterbach-Bahl%2C%20K.%20Nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20from%20soils%3A%20how%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20processes%20and%20their%20controls%3F%202014)

[^9]: Lazcano, C. et al. (2014) Arbuscular mycorrhizal effects on plant water relations and soil greenhouse gas emissions under changing moisture regimes. Soil Biol. Biochem. 74, 184–192 [[Lazcano_ArbuscularMycorrhizalEffectsPlantWater_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lazcano%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plant%20water%20relations%20and%20soil%20greenhouse%20gas%20emissions%20under%20changing%20moisture%20regimes%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lazcano%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plant%20water%20relations%20and%20soil%20greenhouse%20gas%20emissions%20under%20changing%20moisture%20regimes%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lazcano%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plant%20water%20relations%20and%20soil%20greenhouse%20gas%20emissions%20under%20changing%20moisture%20regimes%202014)

[^10]: van der Salm, C. et al. (2007) Estimation of nitrogen losses via denitrification from a heavy clay soil under grass. Agric. Ecosys. Environ. 119, 311–319 [[van_der_Salm_EstimationNitrogenLossesDenitrificationFrom_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Salm%2C%20C.%20Estimation%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20via%20denitrification%20from%20a%20heavy%20clay%20soil%20under%20grass%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Salm%2C%20C.%20Estimation%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20via%20denitrification%20from%20a%20heavy%20clay%20soil%20under%20grass%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Salm%2C%20C.%20Estimation%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20via%20denitrification%20from%20a%20heavy%20clay%20soil%20under%20grass%202007)

[^11]: Velthof, G.L. et al. (2009) Integrated assessment of nitrogen losses from agriculture in EU-27 using MITERRA-EUROPE. J. Environ. Qual. 38, 402–417 [[Velthof_IntegratedAssessmentNitrogenLossesFrom_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Velthof%2C%20G.L.%20Integrated%20assessment%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20agriculture%20in%20EU-27%20using%20MITERRA-EUROPE%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Velthof%2C%20G.L.%20Integrated%20assessment%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20agriculture%20in%20EU-27%20using%20MITERRA-EUROPE%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Velthof%2C%20G.L.%20Integrated%20assessment%20of%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20agriculture%20in%20EU-27%20using%20MITERRA-EUROPE%202009)

[^12]: Ollivier, J. et al. (2011) Nitrogen turnover in soil and global change. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 78, 3–16 [[Ollivier_NitrogenTurnoverSoilGlobalChange_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ollivier%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20turnover%20in%20soil%20and%20global%20change%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ollivier%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20turnover%20in%20soil%20and%20global%20change%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ollivier%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20turnover%20in%20soil%20and%20global%20change%202011)

[^13]: Smith, S.E. and Smith, F.A. (2011) Mycorrhizas in plant nutrition and growth: new paradigms from cellular to ecosystem scales. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 62, 227–250 [[Smith_MycorrhizasPlantNutritionGrowthParadigms_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Mycorrhizas%20in%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20growth%3A%20new%20paradigms%20from%20cellular%20to%20ecosystem%20scales%202011)

[^14]: Jakobsen, I. et al. (1992) External hyphae of vesicular–arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with Trifolium subterraneum L. 1. Spread of hyphae and phosphorus inflow into roots. New Phytol. 120, 371–380 [[Jakobsen_ExternalHyphaeVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992)

[^15]: Li, X. et al. (1991) Extension of the phosphorus depletion zone in VA mycorrhizal white clover in a calcareous soil. Plant Soil 136, 41–48 [[Li_ExtensionPhosphorusDepletionZoneVa_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20X.%20Extension%20of%20the%20phosphorus%20depletion%20zone%20in%20VA%20mycorrhizal%20white%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20X.%20Extension%20of%20the%20phosphorus%20depletion%20zone%20in%20VA%20mycorrhizal%20white%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20X.%20Extension%20of%20the%20phosphorus%20depletion%20zone%20in%20VA%20mycorrhizal%20white%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%201991)

[^16]: Drew, E.A. et al. (2003) Beyond the rhizosphere: growth and function of arbuscular mycorrhizal external hyphae in sands of varying pore sizes. Plant Soil 251, 105–114 [[Drew_BeyondRhizosphereGrowthFunctionArbuscular_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Drew%2C%20E.A.%20Beyond%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20growth%20and%20function%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20external%20hyphae%20in%20sands%20of%20varying%20pore%20sizes%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Drew%2C%20E.A.%20Beyond%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20growth%20and%20function%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20external%20hyphae%20in%20sands%20of%20varying%20pore%20sizes%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Drew%2C%20E.A.%20Beyond%20the%20rhizosphere%3A%20growth%20and%20function%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20external%20hyphae%20in%20sands%20of%20varying%20pore%20sizes%202003)

[^17]: Cavagnaro, T.R. et al. (2005) Functional diversity in arbuscular mycorrhizas: exploitation of soil patches with different phosphate enrichment differs among fungal species. Plant Cell Environ. 28, 642–650 [[Cavagnaro_FunctionalDiversityArbuscularMycorrhizasExploitation_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Functional%20diversity%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20exploitation%20of%20soil%20patches%20with%20different%20phosphate%20enrichment%20differs%20among%20fungal%20species%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Functional%20diversity%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20exploitation%20of%20soil%20patches%20with%20different%20phosphate%20enrichment%20differs%20among%20fungal%20species%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Functional%20diversity%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20exploitation%20of%20soil%20patches%20with%20different%20phosphate%20enrichment%20differs%20among%20fungal%20species%202005)

[^18]: Cavagnaro, T.R. (2008) The role of arbuscular mycorrhzas in improving plant zinc nutrition under low soil zinc concentrations: a review. Plant Soil 304, 315–325 [[Cavagnaro_RoleArbuscularMycorrhzasImprovingPlant_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhzas%20in%20improving%20plant%20zinc%20nutrition%20under%20low%20soil%20zinc%20concentrations%3A%20a%20review%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhzas%20in%20improving%20plant%20zinc%20nutrition%20under%20low%20soil%20zinc%20concentrations%3A%20a%20review%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhzas%20in%20improving%20plant%20zinc%20nutrition%20under%20low%20soil%20zinc%20concentrations%3A%20a%20review%202008)

[^19]: Marschner, H. and Dell, B. (1994) Nutrient uptake in mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Soil 159, 89–102 [[Marschner_NutrientUptakeMycorrhizalSymbiosis_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Nutrient%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Nutrient%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Nutrient%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201994)

[^20]: Lehmann, A. et al. (2014) Arbuscular mycorrhizal influence on zinc nutrition in crop plants – a meta-analysis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 60, 123–131 [[Lehmann_ArbuscularMycorrhizalInfluenceZincNutrition_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014)

[^21]: Whiteside, M.D. et al. (2009) The brighter side of soils: quantum dots track organic nitrogen through fungi and plants. Ecology 90, 100–108 [[Whiteside_BrighterSideSoilsQuantumDots_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20The%20brighter%20side%20of%20soils%3A%20quantum%20dots%20track%20organic%20nitrogen%20through%20fungi%20and%20plants%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20The%20brighter%20side%20of%20soils%3A%20quantum%20dots%20track%20organic%20nitrogen%20through%20fungi%20and%20plants%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20The%20brighter%20side%20of%20soils%3A%20quantum%20dots%20track%20organic%20nitrogen%20through%20fungi%20and%20plants%202009)

[^22]: Whiteside, M.D. et al. (2012) Amino acid uptake in arbuscular mycorrhizal plants. PLoS ONE 7, e47643 [[Whiteside_AminoAcidUptakeArbuscularMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20Amino%20acid%20uptake%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20Amino%20acid%20uptake%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Whiteside%2C%20M.D.%20Amino%20acid%20uptake%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%202012)

[^23]: Jayachandran, K. et al. (1992) Mineralization of organic phosphorus by vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Biol. Biochem. 24, 897–903 [[Jayachandran_MineralizationOrganicPhosphorusVesicularArbuscular_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jayachandran%2C%20K.%20Mineralization%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20by%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jayachandran%2C%20K.%20Mineralization%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20by%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jayachandran%2C%20K.%20Mineralization%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20by%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992)

[^24]: Tanaka, Y. and Yano, K. (2005) Nitrogen delivery to maize via mycorrhizal hyphae depends on the form of N supplied. Plant Cell Environ. 28, 1247–1254 [[Tanaka_NitrogenDeliveryMaizeMycorrhizalHyphae_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005)

[^25]: Ames, R.N. et al. (1983) Hyphal uptake and transport of nitrogen from two 15N-labelled sources by Glomus mosseae, a vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 95, 381–396 [[Ames_HyphalUptakeTransportNitrogenFrom_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983)

[^26]: Hodge, A. et al. (2001) An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature 413, 297–299 [[Hodge_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^27]: Hodge, A. and Fitter, A.H. (2010) Substantial nitrogen acquisition by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic material has implications for N cycling. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 107, 13754–13759 [[Hodge_SubstantialNitrogenAcquisitionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010)

[^28]: Tian, C. et al. (2010) Regulation of the nitrogen transfer pathway in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: gene characterization and the coordination of expression with nitrogen flux. Plant Physiol. 153, 1175–1187 [[Tian_RegulationNitrogenTransferPathwayArbuscular_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tian%2C%20C.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20transfer%20pathway%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20gene%20characterization%20and%20the%20coordination%20of%20expression%20with%20nitrogen%20flux%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tian%2C%20C.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20transfer%20pathway%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20gene%20characterization%20and%20the%20coordination%20of%20expression%20with%20nitrogen%20flux%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tian%2C%20C.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20transfer%20pathway%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20gene%20characterization%20and%20the%20coordination%20of%20expression%20with%20nitrogen%20flux%202010)

[^29]: Govindarajulu, M. et al. (2005) Nitrogen transfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 435, 819–823 [[Govindarajulu_NitrogenTransferArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005)

[^30]: Veresoglou, S.F. et al. (2012) Arbuscular mycorrhiza and soil nitrogen cycling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 46, 53–62 [[Veresoglou_ArbuscularMycorrhizaSoilNitrogenCycling_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.F.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20soil%20nitrogen%20cycling%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veresoglou%2C%20S.F.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20soil%20nitrogen%20cycling%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.F.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20soil%20nitrogen%20cycling%202012)

[^31]: Reynolds, H.L. et al. (2005) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi do not enhance nitrogen acquisition and growth of old-field perennials under lownitrogen supply in glasshouse culture. New Phytol. 167, 869–880 [[Reynolds_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiEnhanceNitrogen_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reynolds%2C%20H.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20do%20not%20enhance%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20and%20growth%20of%20old-field%20perennials%20under%20lownitrogen%20supply%20in%20glasshouse%20culture%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reynolds%2C%20H.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20do%20not%20enhance%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20and%20growth%20of%20old-field%20perennials%20under%20lownitrogen%20supply%20in%20glasshouse%20culture%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reynolds%2C%20H.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20do%20not%20enhance%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20and%20growth%20of%20old-field%20perennials%20under%20lownitrogen%20supply%20in%20glasshouse%20culture%202005)

[^32]: van der Heijden, M.G.A. et al. (2006) The mycorrhizal contribution to plant productivity, plant nutrition and soil structure in experimental grassland. New Phytol. 172, 739–752 [[van_der_Heijden_MycorrhizalContributionPlantProductivityPlant_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20plant%20productivity%2C%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20soil%20structure%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20plant%20productivity%2C%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20soil%20structure%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20plant%20productivity%2C%20plant%20nutrition%20and%20soil%20structure%20in%20experimental%20grassland%202006)

[^33]: Scheublin, T.R. et al. (2007) Presence and identity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi influence competitive interactions between plant species. J. Ecol. 95, 631–638 [[Scheublin_PresenceIdentityArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Presence%20and%20identity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20influence%20competitive%20interactions%20between%20plant%20species%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Presence%20and%20identity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20influence%20competitive%20interactions%20between%20plant%20species%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Presence%20and%20identity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20influence%20competitive%20interactions%20between%20plant%20species%202007)

[^34]: Asghari, H.R. and Cavagnaro, T.R. (2011) Arbuscular mycorrhizas enhance plant interception of leached nutrients. Funct. Plant Biol. 38, 219–226 [[Asghari_ArbuscularMycorrhizasEnhancePlantInterception_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20enhance%20plant%20interception%20of%20leached%20nutrients%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20enhance%20plant%20interception%20of%20leached%20nutrients%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20enhance%20plant%20interception%20of%20leached%20nutrients%202011)

[^35]: van der Heijden, M.G.A. (2010) Mycorrhizal fungi reduce nutrient loss from model grassland ecosystems. Ecology 91, 1163–1171 [[van_der_Heijden_MycorrhizalFungiReduceNutrientLoss_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010)

[^36]: Corkidi, L. et al. (2011) Effects of mycorrhizal colonization on nitrogen and phosphorus leaching from nursery containers. Hortscience 46, 1472–1479 [[Corkidi_EffectsMycorrhizalColonizationNitrogenPhosphorus_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20leaching%20from%20nursery%20containers%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20leaching%20from%20nursery%20containers%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20leaching%20from%20nursery%20containers%202011)

[^37]: Bender, S.F. and van der Heijden, M.G.A. (2015) Soil biota enhance agricultural sustainability by improving crop yield, nutrient uptake and reducing nitrogen leaching losses. J. Appl. Ecol. 52, 228–239 [[Bender_SoilBiotaEnhanceAgriculturalSustainability_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Soil%20biota%20enhance%20agricultural%20sustainability%20by%20improving%20crop%20yield%2C%20nutrient%20uptake%20and%20reducing%20nitrogen%20leaching%20losses%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Soil%20biota%20enhance%20agricultural%20sustainability%20by%20improving%20crop%20yield%2C%20nutrient%20uptake%20and%20reducing%20nitrogen%20leaching%20losses%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Soil%20biota%20enhance%20agricultural%20sustainability%20by%20improving%20crop%20yield%2C%20nutrient%20uptake%20and%20reducing%20nitrogen%20leaching%20losses%202015)

[^38]: de Vries, F.T. et al. (2013) Soil food web properties explain ecosystem services across European land use systems. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 110, 14296–14301 [[de_Vries_SoilFoodPropertiesExplainEcosystem_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=de%20Vries%2C%20F.T.%20Soil%20food%20web%20properties%20explain%20ecosystem%20services%20across%20European%20land%20use%20systems%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=de%20Vries%2C%20F.T.%20Soil%20food%20web%20properties%20explain%20ecosystem%20services%20across%20European%20land%20use%20systems%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=de%20Vries%2C%20F.T.%20Soil%20food%20web%20properties%20explain%20ecosystem%20services%20across%20European%20land%20use%20systems%202013)

[^39]: Kohl, L. et al. (2014) Agricultural practices indirectly influence plant productivity and ecosystem services through effects on soil biota. Ecol. Appl. 24, 1842–1853 [[Kohl_AgriculturalPracticesIndirectlyInfluencePlant_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kohl%2C%20L.%20Agricultural%20practices%20indirectly%20influence%20plant%20productivity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20through%20effects%20on%20soil%20biota%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kohl%2C%20L.%20Agricultural%20practices%20indirectly%20influence%20plant%20productivity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20through%20effects%20on%20soil%20biota%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kohl%2C%20L.%20Agricultural%20practices%20indirectly%20influence%20plant%20productivity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20through%20effects%20on%20soil%20biota%202014)

[^40]: Wagg, C. et al. (2014) Soil biodiversity and soil community composition determine ecosystem multifunctionality. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 111, 5266–5270 [[Wagg_SoilBiodiversitySoilCommunityComposition_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wagg%2C%20C.%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20soil%20community%20composition%20determine%20ecosystem%20multifunctionality%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagg%2C%20C.%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20soil%20community%20composition%20determine%20ecosystem%20multifunctionality%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wagg%2C%20C.%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20soil%20community%20composition%20determine%20ecosystem%20multifunctionality%202014)

[^41]: Jackson, L. et al. (2008) Roots, nitrogen transformations, and ecosystem services. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 59, 341–363 [[Jackson_RootsNitrogenTransformationsEcosystemServices_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jackson%2C%20L.%20Roots%2C%20nitrogen%20transformations%2C%20and%20ecosystem%20services%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jackson%2C%20L.%20Roots%2C%20nitrogen%20transformations%2C%20and%20ecosystem%20services%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jackson%2C%20L.%20Roots%2C%20nitrogen%20transformations%2C%20and%20ecosystem%20services%202008)

[^42]: Rillig, M.C. (2004) Arbuscular mycorrhizae and terrestrial ecosystem processes. Ecol. Lett. 7, 740–754 [[Rillig_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeTerrestrialEcosystemProcesses_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20processes%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20processes%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20processes%202004)

[^43]: Asghari, H.R. and Cavagnaro, T.R. (2012) Arbuscular mycorrhizas reduce nitrogen loss via leaching. PLoS ONE 7, e29825 [[Asghari_ArbuscularMycorrhizasReduceNitrogenLoss_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20reduce%20nitrogen%20loss%20via%20leaching%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20reduce%20nitrogen%20loss%20via%20leaching%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%20reduce%20nitrogen%20loss%20via%20leaching%202012)

[^44]: Bender, S.F. et al. (2014) Symbiotic relationships between soil fungi and plants reduce N2O emissions from soil. ISME J. 8, 1336–1345 [[Bender_SymbioticRelationshipsBetweenSoilFungi_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014)

[^45]: Cavagnaro, T.R. et al. (2006) Arbuscular mycorrhizas, microbial communities, nutrient availability, and soil aggregates in organic tomato production. Plant Soil 282, 209–225 [[Cavagnaro_ArbuscularMycorrhizasMicrobialCommunitiesNutrient_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20microbial%20communities%2C%20nutrient%20availability%2C%20and%20soil%20aggregates%20in%20organic%20tomato%20production%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20microbial%20communities%2C%20nutrient%20availability%2C%20and%20soil%20aggregates%20in%20organic%20tomato%20production%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cavagnaro%2C%20T.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20microbial%20communities%2C%20nutrient%20availability%2C%20and%20soil%20aggregates%20in%20organic%20tomato%20production%202006)

[^46]: Burger, M. et al. (2005) Microbial responses and nitrous oxide emissions during rewetting and drying of agricultural soil under organic and conventional management. Biol. Fertil. Soils 42, 109–118 [[Burger_MicrobialResponsesNitrousOxideEmissions_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burger%2C%20M.%20Microbial%20responses%20and%20nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20during%20rewetting%20and%20drying%20of%20agricultural%20soil%20under%20organic%20and%20conventional%20management%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burger%2C%20M.%20Microbial%20responses%20and%20nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20during%20rewetting%20and%20drying%20of%20agricultural%20soil%20under%20organic%20and%20conventional%20management%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burger%2C%20M.%20Microbial%20responses%20and%20nitrous%20oxide%20emissions%20during%20rewetting%20and%20drying%20of%20agricultural%20soil%20under%20organic%20and%20conventional%20management%202005)

[^47]: Seitzinger, S. et al. (2006) Denitrification across landscapes and waterscapes: a synthesis. Ecol. Appl. 16, 2064–2090 [[Seitzinger_DenitrificationAcrossLandscapesWaterscapesSynthesis_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Denitrification%20across%20landscapes%20and%20waterscapes%3A%20a%20synthesis%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Denitrification%20across%20landscapes%20and%20waterscapes%3A%20a%20synthesis%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Denitrification%20across%20landscapes%20and%20waterscapes%3A%20a%20synthesis%202006)

[^48]: Auge, R.M. (2004) Arbuscular mycorrhizae and soil/plant water relations. Can. J. Soil Sci. 84, 373–381 [[Auge_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeSoilplantWaterRelations_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Auge%2C%20R.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20soil/plant%20water%20relations%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Auge%2C%20R.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20soil/plant%20water%20relations%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Auge%2C%20R.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20and%20soil/plant%20water%20relations%202004)

[^49]: Asghari, H.R. et al. (2005) Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis on phosphorus leaching through soil cores. Plant Soil 275, 181–193 [[Asghari_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizalamSymbiosis_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20%28AM%29%20symbiosis%20on%20phosphorus%20leaching%20through%20soil%20cores%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20%28AM%29%20symbiosis%20on%20phosphorus%20leaching%20through%20soil%20cores%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Asghari%2C%20H.R.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20%28AM%29%20symbiosis%20on%20phosphorus%20leaching%20through%20soil%20cores%202005)

[^50]: Leigh, J. et al. (2008) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plant from organic material. New Phytol. 181, 199–207 [[Leigh_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiTransferSubstantial_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202008)

[^51]: Merrild, M.P. et al. (2013) Common arbuscular mycorrhizal networks amplify competition for phosphorus between seedlings and established plants. New Phytol. 200, 229–240 [[Merrild_CommonArbuscularMycorrhizalNetworksAmplify_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Merrild%2C%20M.P.%20Common%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20amplify%20competition%20for%20phosphorus%20between%20seedlings%20and%20established%20plants%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Merrild%2C%20M.P.%20Common%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20amplify%20competition%20for%20phosphorus%20between%20seedlings%20and%20established%20plants%202013) 

[^52]: Graham, J.H. et al. (1981) Membrane-mediated decrease in root exudation responsible for phosphorous inhibition of vesicular– arbuscular mycorrhiza formation. Plant Physiol. 68, 548–552 [[Graham_MembranemediatedDecreaseRootExudationResponsible_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Membrane-mediated%20decrease%20in%20root%20exudation%20responsible%20for%20phosphorous%20inhibition%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Membrane-mediated%20decrease%20in%20root%20exudation%20responsible%20for%20phosphorous%20inhibition%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Membrane-mediated%20decrease%20in%20root%20exudation%20responsible%20for%20phosphorous%20inhibition%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%201981)

[^53]: Hooker, J.E. et al. (2007) Polysaccharides and monosaccharides in the hyphosphere of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi Glomus E3 and Glomus tenue. Soil Biol. Biochem. 39, 680–683 [[Hooker_PolysaccharidesMonosaccharidesHyphosphereArbuscularMycorrhizal_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hooker%2C%20J.E.%20Polysaccharides%20and%20monosaccharides%20in%20the%20hyphosphere%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20Glomus%20E3%20and%20Glomus%20tenue%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hooker%2C%20J.E.%20Polysaccharides%20and%20monosaccharides%20in%20the%20hyphosphere%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20Glomus%20E3%20and%20Glomus%20tenue%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hooker%2C%20J.E.%20Polysaccharides%20and%20monosaccharides%20in%20the%20hyphosphere%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20Glomus%20E3%20and%20Glomus%20tenue%202007)

[^54]: Veresoglou, S.D. et al. (2012) Arbuscular mycorrhizal modulation of diazotrophic and denitrifying microbial communities in the [[Veresoglou_ArbuscularMycorrhizalModulationDiazotrophicDenitrifying_2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20modulation%20of%20diazotrophic%20and%20denitrifying%20microbial%20communities%20in%20the%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20modulation%20of%20diazotrophic%20and%20denitrifying%20microbial%20communities%20in%20the%202012) 

[^Plante_2007_a]: (mycor)rhizosphere of Plantago lanceolata. Soil Biol. Biochem. 53, 78–81 55 Plante, A.F. (2007) Soil biochemical cycling of inorganic nutrients and metals. In Soil Microbiology, Ecology and Biochemistry (Paul, E.A., ed.), pp. 389–432, Springer 56 Rodriguez, H. and Fraga, R. (1999) Phosphate solubilizing bacteria and their role in plant growth promotion. Biotechnol. Adv. 17, 319–339 57 Gyaneshwar, P. et al. (2002) Role of soil microorganisms in improving P nutrition of plants. Plant Soil 245, 83–93 58 Frossard, E. et al. (2000) Processes governing phosphorus availability in temperate soils. J. Envion. Qual. 29, 15–23 59 Barberis, E. et al. (1995) European soils overfertilized with phosphorus: part 1. Basic properties. Fertil. Res. 45, 199–207 60 Ozanne, P.G. et al. (1961) Loss of phosphorus from sandy soils. Aust. J. Agric. Res. 12, 409–423 61 Lewis, D.C. et al. (1987) Accumulation of plant nutrients and changes in soil properties of sandy soils under fertilized pasture in southeastern South Australia. [[Plante_MycorrhizospherePlantagoLanceolataSoilBiol_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Plante%2C%20A.F.%20mycor%29rhizosphere%20of%20Plantago%20lanceolata.%20Soil%20Biol%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plante%2C%20A.F.%20mycor%29rhizosphere%20of%20Plantago%20lanceolata.%20Soil%20Biol%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Plante%2C%20A.F.%20mycor%29rhizosphere%20of%20Plantago%20lanceolata.%20Soil%20Biol%202007)

[^Plant_2015_a]: Plant Science Conferences in 2015 [[Plant_PlantScienceConferences_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20Science%20Conferences%20in%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20Science%20Conferences%20in%202015) 

[^Frontiers_2015_b]: Frontiers of Plant Biology: Epigenetics & Development 8–12 June, 2015 Suzhou, China http://www.csh-asia.org/2015meetings/Plant.html [[Frontiers_FrontiersPlantBiologyEpigenetics_2015]] [OA](http://www.csh-asia.org/2015meetings/Plant.html)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Frontiers%20of%20Plant%20Biology%20Epigenetics%20%20Development%20812%20June%202015%20Suzhou%20China%20httpwwwcshasiaorg2015meetingsPlanthtml)

[^June_2015_a]: 9–13 June, 2015 Norrtalje, Sweden http://events.embo.org/15-plant/ [[June_Norrtalje_2015]] [OA](http://events.embo.org/15-plant/)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=June%20Norrtalje%202015)

[^Rhizosphere_2015_a]: Rhizosphere4 21–24 June, 2015 Maastricht, The Netherlands http://www.rhizo4.org/ [[Rhizosphere__2015]] [OA](http://www.rhizo4.org/)  

[^International_2015_c]: International Plant and Algal Phenomics Meeting (IPAP) 27–30 June, 2015 [[International_InternationalPlantAlgalPhenomicsMeeting_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=International%20Plant%20and%20Algal%20Phenomics%20Meeting%20IPAP%202730%20June%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=International%20Plant%20and%20Algal%20Phenomics%20Meeting%20IPAP%202730%20June%202015) 

[^Prague_0000_a]: Prague, Czech Republic http://www.psi.cz/ipap2015/#programme [[Prague_CzechRepublic_0000]] [OA](http://www.psi.cz/ipap2015/#programme)  

[^Plant_2015_d]: Plant Abiotic Stress Tolerance III June 29–July 1, 2015 [[Plant_PlantAbioticStressToleranceIii_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20Abiotic%20Stress%20Tolerance%20III%20June%2029July%201%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20Abiotic%20Stress%20Tolerance%20III%20June%2029July%201%202015) 

[^Vienna_0000_a]: Vienna, Austria http://viscea.org/index.php/plant-abiotic [[Vienna__0000]] [OA](http://viscea.org/index.php/plant-abiotic)  

