[[Congreves_et+al_NitrogenUseEfficiencyDefinitionsToday_2021]]

# [Nitrogen Use Efficiency Definitions of Today and Tomorrow](https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2021.637108)

## [[Kate A. Congreves]]; [[Olivia Otchere]]; [[Daphnée Ferland]] et al.

### 2021

## Abstract
Crop production has a large impact on the nitrogen (N) cycle, with consequences to climate, environment, and public health. Designing better N management will require indicators that accurately reflect the complexities of N cycling and provide biological meaning. Nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is an established metric used to benchmark N management. There are numerous approaches to calculate NUE, but it is difficult to find an authoritative resource that collates the various NUE indices and systematically identifies their assets and shortcomings. Furthermore, there is reason to question the usefulness of many traditional NUE formulations, and to consider factors to improve the conceptualization of NUE for future use. ==As a resource for agricultural researchers and students, here we present a comprehensive list of NUE indices and discuss their functions, strengths, and limitations==. ==We also suggest several factors—which are currently ignored in traditional NUE indices—that will improve the conceptualization of NUE, such as: accounting for a wider range of soil N forms, considering how plants mediate their response to the soil N status, including the below-ground/root N pools, capturing the synchrony between available N and plant N demand, blending agronomic performance with ecosystem functioning, and affirming the biological meaning of NUE==.

## Key concepts
#fertilizer; #nitrogen_use_efficiency; #metrics; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #organic_nitrogen; #nitrogen_cycling; #agroecosystems; #relative_growth_rate; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal

## Quote
> To advance the biological meaning of N use efficiency, we propose that future NUE indices should consider a wider range of soil N forms, how plants mediate their response to the soil N status, below-ground/root N pools, and the synchrony between available N and plant N demand


## Key points
- Reactive N has been identified as one of the top five emerging threats facing humanity and the planet (UNEP, 2019) due to its impact on the climate, environment, and public health—and is attributed to the global reliance on reactive N for food production ([^Erisman_et+al_2008_a], [^Erisman_et+al_2011_a])
- One commonly used metric is N use efficiency (NUE); as it can be used for environmental and economic objectives of minimizing nutrient losses and the negative impact on surrounding water, air and ecosystems, as well as reducing costs associated with excessive fertilizer inputs ([^Galloway_et+al_2014_a])
- Measuring the amount of N that is withdrawn from the senescing root parts is difficult, but it is estimated that 50% of N in dying roots is withdrawn and redistributed ([^Berendse_1987_a])— a phenomenon that undoubtedly influences overall plant NUE
- Meaningful metrics are critical to progress towards meeting the goals of productivity and sustainability
- To advance the biological meaning of NUE, we propose that future NUE indices should consider a wider range of soil N forms, how plants mediate their response to the soil N status, below-ground/root N pools, and the synchrony between available N and plant N demand
- Research must endeavor to blend agronomic performance with ecosystem functioning to advance the conceptualization of NUE

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Reactive N has been identified as one of the top five emerging threats facing humanity and the planet (UNEP, 2019) due to its impact on the climate, environment, and public health—and is attributed to the global reliance on reactive N for food production ([^Erisman_et+al_2008_a], [^Erisman_et+al_2011_a]).
Governing leaders are adopting sustainable N management resolutions (UNEA-4, 2019).
To ensure the success of such resolutions, accurate and meaningful N metrics are needed in order to identify, monitor, and develop management practices or innovations that reduce N pollution.
One commonly used metric is N use efficiency (NUE); as it can be used for environmental and economic objectives of minimizing nutrient losses and the negative impact on surrounding water, air and ecosystems, as well as reducing costs associated with excessive fertilizer inputs ([^Galloway_et+al_2014_a]).
There have been many scientific contributions on the topic of NUE, predominately focused on how to improve crop NUE via agricultural management or breeding innovations (Moll et al, 1982; [^Raun_1999_a]; [^Cassman_et+al_2002_a]; [^Cormier_et+al_2016_a]; Martinez-Feria et al, 2018)

### Objectives
To reconcile and deliberate various interpretations of NUE, the objectives are to methodically assess various NUE indices and their definitions, identify their strengths and limitations, and to discuss prospective improvements to the conceptualization of NUE

### Results
Roots comprise roughly 14% of total plant N in common annual crops ([^Gan_et+al_2010_a]), with 4–71% of total plant N released to soil as rhizodeposits ([^Wichern_et+al_2008_a]).
Measuring the amount of N that is withdrawn from the senescing root parts is difficult, but it is estimated that 50% of N in dying roots is withdrawn and redistributed ([^Berendse_1987_a])— a phenomenon that undoubtedly influences overall plant NUE

### Conclusion
Meaningful metrics are critical to progress towards meeting the goals of productivity and sustainability.
The choice of metric significantly affects the interpretations and conclusions about the performance of the crop or system—and for NUE, there are many.
The definitions, strengths, and limitations of the various NUE indices are presented to clarify their potential use when addressing different research questions and goals.
To advance the biological meaning of NUE, the authors propose that future NUE indices should consider a wider range of soil N forms, how plants mediate their response to the soil N status, below-ground/root N pools, and the synchrony between available N and plant N demand.
Research must endeavor to blend agronomic performance with ecosystem functioning to advance the conceptualization of NUE

## Findings
- Roots comprise roughly 14% of total plant N in common annual crops ([^Gan_et+al_2010_a]), with 4–71% of total plant N released to soil as rhizodeposits ([^Wichern_et+al_2008_a])
- Measuring the amount of N that is withdrawn from the senescing root parts is difficult, but it is estimated that 50% of N in dying roots is withdrawn and redistributed ([^Berendse_1987_a])— a phenomenon that undoubtedly influences overall plant NUE

## Contributions
- Meaningful metrics are critical to progress towards meeting the goals of productivity and sustainability. The choice of metric significantly affects the interpretations and conclusions about the performance of the crop or system—and for NUE, there are many. The definitions, strengths, and limitations of the various NUE indices are presented herein to clarify their potential use when addressing different research questions and goals. To advance the biological meaning of NUE, we propose that future NUE indices should consider a wider range of soil N forms, how plants mediate their response to the soil N status, below-ground/root N pools, and the synchrony between available N and plant N demand. Research must endeavor to blend agronomic performance with ecosystem functioning to advance the conceptualization of NUE.<br/><br/>AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

## Limitations
- Key References<br/><br/>The expression of yield per unit of fertilizer N applied<br/><br/>The difference between fertilizer N applied and the N removed as yield; commonly called N surplus<br/><br/>The fraction of fertilizer N that is utilized and allocated to yield N<br/><br/>The expression of plant N content per unit of fertilizer N applied<br/><br/>The contribution of fertilizer N towards yield, compared to a non-fertilized control<br/><br/>The percentage of fertilizer N that is taken up by the plant, accounting for background soil N levels; also sometimes referred to as apparent recovery<br/><br/>- Grower-friendly due to simple numerator and denominator - Best for comparing management practices when focusing on a single crop type - Allows estimation at both regional or national levels if records of inputs and outputs are available<br/><br/>- Shows if there is an accumulation or decline in soil N over a predetermined timeframe (i.e., growing season) - The closer the difference is to zero, the smaller the accumulation of N in the system - Positive values likely reflect a decline in the soil fertility - Values greater and less than 1 indicates net removal and surplus of N, respectively<br/><br/>- Values > 1 indicate soil mining; whereas values < 1 indicate excessive N application<br/><br/>- Useful when focusing on the economic portion of plants (yield) - Indicates the relative benefit of fertilizer to soil N

## Data and code
- DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT FUNDING The original contributions presented in the study are included Financial support was provided by the Natural Science and in the article, further inquiries can be directed to the Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) through a corresponding author. Discovery Grant (RGPIN 2018-04953) awarded to KC.


## References
[^Dobermann_2007_a]: Dobermann (2007) [[Dobermann__2007]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dobermann%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dobermann%202007) 

[^Martinez-Feria_2018_a]: Martinez-Feria et al. (2018) but their denominator included total N inputs Dobermann (2007) [[Martinez-Feria_TheirDenominatorIncludedTotalN_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martinez-Feria%20but%20their%20denominator%20included%20total%20N%20inputs%20Dobermann%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martinez-Feria%20but%20their%20denominator%20included%20total%20N%20inputs%20Dobermann%202018) 

[^Moll_1982_a]: Moll et al. (1982) Dobermann (2007) [[Moll__1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moll%20et%20al%201982%20Dobermann%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moll%20et%20al%201982%20Dobermann%202007) 

[^Moll_1982_b]: Moll et al. (1982) [[Moll__1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moll%20et%20al%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moll%20et%20al%201982) 

[^Arcand_et+al_2014_a]: Arcand, M. M., Knight, J. D., and Farrell, R. E. (2014). Differentiating between the supply of N to wheat from above and belowground residues of preceding crops of pea and canola. Biol. Fertil. Soils 50, 563–570. doi: 10.1007/s00374-0130877-4 [[Arcand_et+al_DifferentiatingBetweenSupplyNWheat_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-0130877-4)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00374-0130877-4)

[^Berendse_1987_a]: Berendse, F., and Aerts, R. (1987). Nitrogen-use-efficiency: a biologically meaningful definition? Funct. Ecol. 1, 293–296. [[Berendse_NitrogenefficiencyBiologicallyMeaningfulDefinitionFunct_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Berendse%2C%20F.%20Aerts%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen-use-efficiency%3A%20a%20biologically%20meaningful%20definition%3F%20Funct%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Berendse%2C%20F.%20Aerts%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen-use-efficiency%3A%20a%20biologically%20meaningful%20definition%3F%20Funct%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Berendse%2C%20F.%20Aerts%2C%20R.%20Nitrogen-use-efficiency%3A%20a%20biologically%20meaningful%20definition%3F%20Funct%201987)

[^Blagodatskaya_et+al_2009_a]: Blagodatskaya, E. V., Blagodatsky, S. A., Anderson, T.-H., and Kuzyakov, Y. (2009). Contrasting effects of glucose, living roots and maize straw on microbial growth kinetics and substrate availability in soil. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 60, 186–197. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2389.2008.01103.x [[Blagodatskaya_et+al_ContrastingEffectsGlucoseLivingRoots_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2389.2008.01103.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-2389.2008.01103.x)

[^Cassman_et+al_2002_a]: Cassman, K. G., Dobermann, A., and Walters, D. T. (2002). Agroecosystems, nitrogen-use efficiency, and nitrogen management. AMBIO A J. Hum. Environ. 31, 132–140. doi: 10.1579/0044-7447-31.2.132 [[Cassman_et+al_AgroecosystemsNitrogenEfficiencyNitrogenManagement_2002]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1579/0044-7447-31.2.132)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1579/0044-7447-31.2.132)

[^Cormier_et+al_2016_a]: Cormier, F., Foulkes, J., Hirel, B., Gouache, D., Moënne-Loccoz, Y., and Le Gouis, J. (2016). Breeding for increased nitrogen-use efficiency: a review for wheat (T. aestivum L.). Plant Breed. 135, 255–278. doi: 10.1111/pbr. 12371 [[Cormier_et+al_BreedingIncreasedNitrogenEfficiencyReview_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/pbr.12371)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/pbr.12371)

[^Dawson_et+al_2008_a]: Dawson, J. C., Huggins, D. R., and Jones, S. S. (2008). Characterizing nitrogen use efficiency in natural and agricultural ecosystems to improve the performance of cereal crops in low-input and organic agricultural systems. Field. Crop. Res. 107, 89–101. doi: 10.1016/J.FCR.2008.01.001 [[Dawson_et+al_CharacterizingNitrogenEfficiencyNaturalAgricultural_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J.FCR.2008.01.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J.FCR.2008.01.001)

[^Dion_et+al_2018_a]: Dion, P.-P., Jämtgård, S., Bertrand, A., Pepin, S., and Dorais, M. (2018). Organic nitrogen uptake and assimilation in cucumis sativus using position-specific labeling and compound-specific isotope analysis. Front. Plant Sci. 9:1596. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.01596 [[Dion_et+al_OrganicNitrogenUptakeAssimilationCucumis_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2018.01596)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2018.01596)

[^Dobermann_2007_a]: Dobermann, A. (2007). “Nutrient use efficiency–measurement and management,” in Proceedings of the International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA) Workshop on Fertilizer Best Management Practices, 7–9 March 2007, Brussels, 1–28. [[Dobermann_NutrientEfficiencymeasurementManagement_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dobermann%2C%20A.%20Nutrient%20use%20efficiency%E2%80%93measurement%20and%20management%2C%202007-03) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dobermann%2C%20A.%20Nutrient%20use%20efficiency%E2%80%93measurement%20and%20management%2C%202007-03) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dobermann%2C%20A.%20Nutrient%20use%20efficiency%E2%80%93measurement%20and%20management%2C%202007-03)

[^Enggrob_et+al_2019_a]: Enggrob, K. L., Jakobsen, C. M., Pedersen, I. F., and Rasmussen, J. (2019). Newly depolymerized large organic N contributes directly to amino acid uptake in young maize plants. New Phytol. 224, 689–699. doi: 10.1111/nph. 16070 [[Enggrob_et+al_NewlyDepolymerizedLargeOrganicN_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.16070)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.16070)

[^Erisman_et+al_2011_a]: Erisman, J. W., Galloway, J., Seitzinger, S., Bleeker, A., and Butterbach-Bahl, K. (2011). Reactive nitrogen in the environment and its effect on climate change. Curr. Opin. Environ. Sustain. 3, 281–290. doi: 10.1016/J.COSUST.2011.08.012 [[Erisman_et+al_ReactiveNitrogenEnvironmentEffectClimate_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J.COSUST.2011.08.012)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J.COSUST.2011.08.012)

[^Erisman_et+al_2018_a]: Erisman, J. W., Leach, A., Bleeker, A., Atwell, B., Cattaneo, L., and Galloway, J. (2018). An integrated approach to a nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) indicator for the food production-consumption chain. Sustainability 10, 1–29. doi: 10.3390/ su10040925 [[Erisman_et+al_IntegratedApproachNitrogenEfficiencynue_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/su10040925)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/su10040925)

[^Erisman_et+al_2008_a]: Erisman, J. W., Sutton, M. A., Galloway, J., Klimont, Z., and Winiwarter, W. (2008). How a century of ammonia synthesis changed the world. Nat. Geosci. 1, 636–639. doi: 10.1038/ngeo325 [[Erisman_et+al_CenturyAmmoniaSynthesisChangedWorld_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo325)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/ngeo325)

[^Ernst_et+al_2020_a]: Ernst, O. R., Kemanian, A. R., Mazzilli, S., Siri-Prieto, G., and Dogliotti, S. (2020). The dos and don’ts of no-till continuous cropping: evidence from wheat yield and nitrogen use efficiency. Field Crops Res. 257:107934. doi: 10.1016/j.fcr.2020. 107934 [[Ernst_et+al_tillContinuousCroppingEvidence_2020]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2020.107934)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.fcr.2020.107934)

[^Fageria_et+al_2008_a]: Fageria, N. K., Baligar, V. C., and Li, Y. C. (2008). The role of nutrient efficient plants in improving crop yields in the twenty first century. J. Plant Nutr. 31, 1121–1157. doi: 10.1080/01904160802116068 [[Fageria_et+al_RoleNutrientEfficientPlantsImproving_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1080/01904160802116068)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1080/01904160802116068)

[^Farzadfar_et+al_2021_a]: Farzadfar, S., Knight, J., and Congreves, K. A. (2021). Soil organic nitrogen: an overlooked but potentially significant contribution to crop nutrition. Plant Soil. doi: 10.1007/s11104-021-04860-w [[Farzadfar_et+al_SoilOrganicNitrogenOverlookedPotentially_2021]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-021-04860-w)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-021-04860-w)

[^Fitter_et+al_2011_a]: Fitter, A. H., Helgason, T., and Hodge, A. (2011). Nutritional exchanges in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: Implications for sustainable agriculture. Fungal Biol. Rev. 25, 68–72. doi: 10.1016/J.FBR.2011.01.002 [[Fitter_et+al_NutritionalExchangesArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J.FBR.2011.01.002)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J.FBR.2011.01.002)

[^Fixen_et+al_2015_a]: Fixen, P., Brentrup, F., Bruulsema, T., Garcia, F., Norton, R., and Zingore, S. (2015). “Nutrient/fertilizer use efficiency: measurement, current situation and trends,” in Managing Water and Fertilizer for Sustainable Agricultural Intensification, eds P. Drechsel, P. Heffer, H. Magen, R. Mikkelsen, and D. Wichelns (Paris: IFA), 8–38. [[Fixen_et+al_NutrientfertilizerEfficiencyMeasurementCurrentSituation_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fixen%2C%20P.%20Brentrup%2C%20F.%20Bruulsema%2C%20T.%20Garcia%2C%20F.%20Nutrient/fertilizer%20use%20efficiency%3A%20measurement%2C%20current%20situation%20and%20trends%2C%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fixen%2C%20P.%20Brentrup%2C%20F.%20Bruulsema%2C%20T.%20Garcia%2C%20F.%20Nutrient/fertilizer%20use%20efficiency%3A%20measurement%2C%20current%20situation%20and%20trends%2C%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fixen%2C%20P.%20Brentrup%2C%20F.%20Bruulsema%2C%20T.%20Garcia%2C%20F.%20Nutrient/fertilizer%20use%20efficiency%3A%20measurement%2C%20current%20situation%20and%20trends%2C%202015)

[^Fontaine_et+al_2007_a]: Fontaine, S., Barot, S., Barré, P., Bdioui, N., Mary, B., and Rumpel, C. (2007). Stability of organic carbon in deep soil layers controlled by fresh carbon supply. Nature 450, 277–280. doi: 10.1038/nature06275 [[Fontaine_et+al_StabilityOrganicCarbonDeepSoil_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature06275)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/nature06275)

[^Franklin_et+al_2017_a]: Franklin, O., Cambui, C. A., Gruffman, L., Palmroth, S., Oren, R., and Näsholm, T. (2017). The carbon bonus of organic nitrogen enhances nitrogen use efficiency of plants. Plant Cell Environ. 40, 25–35. doi: 10.1111/pce.12772 [[Franklin_et+al_CarbonBonusOrganicNitrogenEnhances_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/pce.12772)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/pce.12772)

[^Galloway_et+al_2014_a]: Galloway, J. N., Winiwarter, W., Leip, A., Leach, A. M., Bleeker, A., and Erisman, J. W. (2014). Nitrogen footprints: past, present and future. Environ. Res. Lett. 9:115003. doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/9/11/115003 [[Galloway_et+al_NitrogenFootprintsPastPresentFuture_2014]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/11/115003)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1088/1748-9326/9/11/115003)

[^Gan_et+al_2010_a]: Gan, Y. T., Campbell, C. A., Janzen, H. H., Lemke, R. L., Basnyat, P., and McDonald, C. L. (2010). Nitrogen accumulation in plant tissues and roots and N mineralization under oilseeds, pulses, and spring wheat. Plant Soil 332, 451–461. doi: 10.1007/S11104-010-0312-7 [[Gan_et+al_NitrogenAccumulationPlantTissuesRoots_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/S11104-010-0312-7)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/S11104-010-0312-7)

[^Garnett_et+al_2009_a]: Garnett, T., Conn, V., and Kaiser, B. N. (2009). Root based approaches to improving nitrogen use efficiency in plants. Plant. Cell Environ. 32, 1272–1283. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2009.02011.x [[Garnett_et+al_RootBasedApproachesImprovingNitrogen_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3040.2009.02011.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1365-3040.2009.02011.x)

[^Good_et+al_2004_a]: Good, A. G., Shrawat, A. K., and Muench, D. G. (2004). Can less yield more? Is reducing nutrient input into the environment compatible with maintaining crop production? Trends Plant Sci. 9, 597–605. doi: 10.1016/j.tplants.2004. 10.008 [[Good_et+al_LessYieldMoreIsReducing_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2004.10.008)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.tplants.2004.10.008)

[^Hill_et+al_2011_a]: Hill, P. W., Quilliam, R. S., DeLuca, T. H., Farrar, J., Farrell, M., Roberts, P., et al. (2011). Acquisition and assimilation of nitrogen as peptide-bound and D-enantiomers of amino acids by wheat. PLoS One 6:e19220. doi: 10.1371/ journal.pone.0019220 [[Hill_et+al_AcquisitionAssimilationNitrogenPeptideboundDenantiomers_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0019220)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1371/journal.pone.0019220)

[^Hirel_et+al_2011_a]: Hirel, B., Tétu, T., Lea, P. J., and Dubois, F. (2011). Improving nitrogen use efficiency in crops for sustainable agriculture. Sustainability 3, 1452–1485. doi: 10.3390/su3091452 [[Hirel_et+al_ImprovingNitrogenEfficiencyCropsSustainable_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/su3091452)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/su3091452)

[^Hodge_2004_a]: Hodge, A. (2004). The plastic plant: root responses to heterogeneous supplies of nutrients. New Phytol. 162, 9–24. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01015.x [[Hodge_PlasticPlantRootResponsesHeterogeneous_2004]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01015.x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01015.x)

[^Hodge_2010_a]: Hodge, A., and Fitter, A. H. (2010). Substantial nitrogen acquisition by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic material has implications for N cycling. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 107, 13754–13759. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1005874107 [[Hodge_SubstantialNitrogenAcquisitionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1005874107)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1073/pnas.1005874107)

[^Huggins_1993_a]: Huggins, D. R., and Pan, W. L. (1993). Nitrogen efficiency component analysis: an evaluation of cropping system differences in productivity. Agron. J. 85, 898–905. doi: 10.2134/agronj1993.00021962008500040022x [[Huggins_NitrogenEfficiencyComponentAnalysisEvaluation_1993]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.2134/agronj1993.00021962008500040022x)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.2134/agronj1993.00021962008500040022x)

[^IAEA_1983_a]: IAEA (1983). Guide on the Use of Nitrogen-15 and Radioisotopes in Studies of Plant Nutrition: Calculations and Interpretation of Data. Vienna: IAEA. [[IAEA_GuideUseNitrogen15RadioisotopesStudies_1983]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=IAEA%201983%20Guide%20on%20the%20Use%20of%20Nitrogen15%20and%20Radioisotopes%20in%20Studies%20of%20Plant%20Nutrition%20Calculations%20and%20Interpretation%20of%20Data%20Vienna%20IAEA) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=IAEA%201983%20Guide%20on%20the%20Use%20of%20Nitrogen15%20and%20Radioisotopes%20in%20Studies%20of%20Plant%20Nutrition%20Calculations%20and%20Interpretation%20of%20Data%20Vienna%20IAEA) 

[^IPNI_2014_a]: IPNI (2014). Nutrient Performance Indicators: The Importance of Farm Scale Assessments, Linked to Soil Fertility, Productivity, Environmental Impact and the Adoption of Grower Best Management Practices [WWW Document]. Available online at: http://anz.ipni.net/ipniweb/region/anz.nsf/0/9312A2172A0B917CCA257E8E007219B4/$FILE/IssueReviewPerfInd081114.pdf (accessed June 11, 2020). [[IPNI_NutrientPerformanceIndicatorsImportanceFarm_2014]] [OA](http://anz.ipni.net/ipniweb/region/anz.nsf/0/9312A2172A0B917CCA257E8E007219B4/$FILE/IssueReviewPerfInd081114.pdf)  

[^Ladha_et+al_2005_a]: Ladha, J. K., Pathak, H. J., Krupnik, T., Six, J., and van Kessel, C. (2005). Efficiency of fertilizer nitrogen in cereal production: retrospects and prospects. Adv. Agron 87, 85–156. doi: 10.1016/S0065-2113(05)87003-8 [[Ladha_et+al_EfficiencyFertilizerNitrogenCerealProduction_2005]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2113(05)87003-8)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/S0065-2113(05)87003-8)

[^Lambers_2019_a]: Lambers, H., and Oliveira, R. S. (eds). (2019). “Mineral Nutrition,” in Plant Physiological Ecology. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 301–384. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-29639-1_9 [[Lambers_mineralNutritionPlantPhysiologicalEcology_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-29639-1_9)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/978-3-030-29639-1_9)

[^Leach_et+al_2012_a]: Leach, A. M., Galloway, J. N., Bleeker, A., Erisman, J. W., Kohn, R., and Kitzes, J. (2012). A nitrogen footprint model to help consumers understand their role in nitrogen losses to the environment. Environ. Dev. 1, 40–66. doi: 10.1016/J. ENVDEV.2011.12.005 [[Leach_et+al_NitrogenFootprintModelHelpConsumers_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J)

[^Legay_et+al_2020_a]: Legay, N., Clément, J. C., Grassein, F., Lavorel, S., Lemauviel-Lavenant, S., Personeni, E., et al. (2020). Plant growth drives soil nitrogen cycling and N-related microbial activity through changing root traits. Fungal Ecol. 44:100910. doi: 10.1016/J.FUNECO.2019.100910 [[Legay_et+al_PlantGrowthDrivesSoilNitrogen_2020]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J.FUNECO.2019.100910)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J.FUNECO.2019.100910)

[^Martinez-Feria_et+al_2018_b]: Martinez-Feria, R. A., Castellano, M. J., Dietzel, R. N., Helmers, M. J., Liebman, M., Huber, I., et al. (2018). Linking crop- and soil-based approaches to evaluate system nitrogen-use efficiency and tradeoffs. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 256, 131– 143. doi: 10.1016/j.agee.2018.01.002 [[Martinez-Feria_et+al_LinkingCropSoilbasedApproachesEvaluate_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2018.01.002)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.agee.2018.01.002)

[^Meier_et+al_2006_a]: Meier, E. A., Thorburn, P. J., Wegener, M. K., and Basford, K. E. (2006). The availability of nitrogen from sugarcane trash on contrasting soils in the wet tropics of North Queensland. Nutr. Cycl. Agroecosyst. 75, 101–114. doi: 10.1007/ s10705-006-9015-0 [[Meier_et+al_AvailabilityNitrogenFromSugarcaneTrash_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10705-006-9015-0)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s10705-006-9015-0)

[^Moll_et+al_1982_c]: Moll, R. H., Kamprath, E. J., and Jackson, W. A. (1982). Analysis and interpretation of factors which contribute to efficiency of nitrogen utilization 1. Agron. J. 74, 562–564. doi: 10.2134/agronj1982.00021962007400030 037x [[Moll_et+al_AnalysisInterpretationFactorsWhichContribute_1982]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.2134/agronj1982.00021962007400030)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.2134/agronj1982.00021962007400030)

[^Moreau_et+al_2019_a]: Moreau, D., Bardgett, R. D., Finlay, R. D., Jones, D. L., and Philippot, L. (2019). A plant perspective on nitrogen cycling in the rhizosphere. Funct. Ecol. 33, 540–552. doi: 10.1111/1365-2435.13303 [[Moreau_et+al_PlantPerspectiveNitrogenCyclingRhizosphere_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/1365-2435.13303)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/1365-2435.13303)

[^Naesholm_et+al_2009_a]: Näsholm, T., Kielland, K., and Ganeteg, U. (2009). Uptake of organic nitrogen by plants. New Phytol. 182, 31–48. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2008.02 751.x [[Naesholm_et+al_UptakeOrganicNitrogenPlants_2009]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2008.02)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2008.02)

[^Novoa_1981_a]: Novoa, R., and Loomis, R. S. (1981). Nitrogen and plant production. Plant Soil 58, 177–204. doi: 10.1007/BF02180053 [[Novoa_NitrogenPlantProduction_1981]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02180053)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/BF02180053)

[^Paungfoo-Lonhienne_et+al_2012_a]: Paungfoo-Lonhienne, C., Visser, J., Lonhienne, T. G. A., and Schmidt, S. (2012). Past, present and future of organic nutrients. Plant Soil 359, 1–18. doi: 10.1007/ s11104-012-1357-6 [[Paungfoo-Lonhienne_et+al_PastPresentFutureOrganicNutrients_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-012-1357-6)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-012-1357-6)

[^Raun_1999_a]: Raun, W. R., and Johnson, G. V. (1999). Improving nitrogen use efficiency for cereal production. Agron. J. 91, 357–363. [[Raun_ImprovingNitrogenEfficiencyCerealProduction_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Improving%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20for%20cereal%20production%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Improving%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20for%20cereal%20production%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Improving%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20for%20cereal%20production%201999)

[^Rentsch_et+al_2007_a]: Rentsch, D., Schmidt, S., and Tegeder, M. (2007). Transporters for uptake and allocation of organic nitrogen compounds in plants. FEBS Lett. 581, 2281–2289. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2007.04.013 [[Rentsch_et+al_TransportersUptakeAllocationOrganicNitrogen_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.febslet.2007.04.013)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.febslet.2007.04.013)

[^Sainju_2017_a]: Sainju, U. M. (2017). Determination of nitrogen balance in agroecosystems. MethodsX 4, 199–208. doi: 10.1016/j.mex.2017.06.001 [[Sainju_DeterminationNitrogenBalanceAgroecosystems_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mex.2017.06.001)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.mex.2017.06.001)

[^Taveira_et+al_2020_a]: Taveira, C. J., Farrell, R. E., Wagner-Riddle, C., Machado, P. V. F., Deen, B., and Congreves, K. A. (2020). Tracing crop residue N into subsequent crops: Insight from long-term crop rotations that vary in diversity. Field. Crop Res. 255:107904. doi: 10.1016/j.fcr.2020.107904 [[Taveira_et+al_TracingCropResidueNInto_2020]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2020.107904)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.fcr.2020.107904)

[^Thirkell_et+al_2016_a]: Thirkell, T. J., Cameron, D. D., and Hodge, A. (2016). Resolving the ‘nitrogen paradox’ of arbuscular mycorrhizas: fertilization with organic matter brings considerable benefits for plant nutrition and growth. Plant. Cell Environ. 39, 1683–1690. doi: 10.1111/pce.12667 [[Thirkell_et+al_ResolvingnitrogenParadoxArbuscularMycorrhizas_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/pce.12667)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/pce.12667)

[^U_2019_a]: UNEA-4 (2019). United Nations Environment Assembly of the United Nations Environment Programme Fourth session “Sustainable Nitrogen Management. Nairobi: UNEP. [[U_UnitedNationsEnvironmentAssemblyUnited_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=U.N.E.A.-4%20United%20Nations%20Environment%20Assembly%20of%20the%20United%20Nations%20Environment%20Programme%20Fourth%20session%20%E2%80%9CSustainable%20Nitrogen%20Management%202019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=U.N.E.A.-4%20United%20Nations%20Environment%20Assembly%20of%20the%20United%20Nations%20Environment%20Programme%20Fourth%20session%20%E2%80%9CSustainable%20Nitrogen%20Management%202019) 

[^UNEP_2019_a]: UNEP (2019). Frontiers 2018/19: Emerging Issues of Environmental Concern. Nairobi: UNEP. [[UNEP_Frontiers201819EmergingIssuesEnvironmental_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=UNEP%202019%20Frontiers%20201819%20Emerging%20Issues%20of%20Environmental%20Concern%20Nairobi%20UNEP) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=UNEP%202019%20Frontiers%20201819%20Emerging%20Issues%20of%20Environmental%20Concern%20Nairobi%20UNEP) 

[^van_Eerd_2007_a]: Van Eerd, L. L. (2007). Evaluation of different nitrogen use efficiency indices using field-grown green bell peppers (Capsicum annuum L.). Can. J. Plant Sci. 87, 565–569. doi: 10.4141/p06-116 [[van_Eerd_EvaluationDifferentNitrogenEfficiencyIndices_2007]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.4141/p06-116)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.4141/p06-116)

[^Veresoglou_et+al_2012_a]: Veresoglou, S. D., Chen, B., and Rillig, M. C. (2012). Arbuscular mycorrhiza and soil nitrogen cycling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 46, 53–62. doi: 10.1016/J.SOILBIO. 2011.11.018 [[Veresoglou_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaSoilNitrogenCycling_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/J.SOILBIO.2011.11.018)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/J.SOILBIO.2011.11.018)

[^Verzeaux_et+al_2017_a]: Verzeaux, J., Hirel, B., Dubois, F., Lea, P. J., and Tétu, T. (2017). Agricultural practices to improve nitrogen use efficiency through the use of arbuscular mycorrhizae: basic and agronomic aspects. Plant Sci. 264, 48–56. doi: 10.1016/ J.PLANTSCI.2017.08.004 [[Verzeaux_et+al_AgriculturalPracticesImproveNitrogenEfficiency_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Verzeaux%2C%20J.%20Hirel%2C%20B.%20Dubois%2C%20F.%20Lea%2C%20P.J.%20Agricultural%20practices%20to%20improve%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20through%20the%20use%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%3A%20basic%20and%20agronomic%20aspects%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Verzeaux%2C%20J.%20Hirel%2C%20B.%20Dubois%2C%20F.%20Lea%2C%20P.J.%20Agricultural%20practices%20to%20improve%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20through%20the%20use%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%3A%20basic%20and%20agronomic%20aspects%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Verzeaux%2C%20J.%20Hirel%2C%20B.%20Dubois%2C%20F.%20Lea%2C%20P.J.%20Agricultural%20practices%20to%20improve%20nitrogen%20use%20efficiency%20through%20the%20use%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%3A%20basic%20and%20agronomic%20aspects%202017)

[^Weih_et+al_2011_a]: Weih, M., Asplund, L., and Bergkvist, G. (2011). Assessment of nutrient use in annual and perennial crops: a functional concept for analyzing nitrogen use efficiency. Plant Soil 339, 513–520. doi: 10.1007/s11104-010-0599-4 [[Weih_et+al_AssessmentNutrientAnnualPerennialCrops_2011]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-010-0599-4)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11104-010-0599-4)

[^Whipps_2001_a]: Whipps, J. M. (2001). Microbial interactions and biocontrol in the rhizosphere. J. Exp. Bot. 52, 487–511. doi: 10.1093/jexbot/52.suppl_1.487 [[Whipps_MicrobialInteractionsBiocontrolRhizosphere_2001]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/jexbot/52.suppl_1.487)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/jexbot/52.suppl_1.487)

[^Wichern_et+al_2008_a]: Wichern, F., Eberhardt, E., Mayer, J., Joergensen, R. G., and Müller, T. (2008). Nitrogen rhizodeposition in agricultural crops: methods, estimates and future prospects. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40, 30–48. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.08.010 [[Wichern_et+al_NitrogenRhizodepositionAgriculturalCropsMethods_2008]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.08.010)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.08.010)

