[[Ebrahim_et+al_CobrapyConstraintsbasedReconstructionAnalysisPython_2013]]

# [COBRApy: COnstraints-Based Reconstruction and Analysis for Python](https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1752-0509-7-74)

## [[Ali Ebrahim]]; [[Joshua A Lerman]]; [[Bernhard O Palsson]] et al.

### 2013

## Abstract
Background COnstraint-Based Reconstruction and Analysis (COBRA) methods are widely used for genome-scale modeling of metabolic networks in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Due to the successes with metabolism, there is an increasing effort to apply COBRA methods to reconstruct and analyze integrated models of cellular processes. The COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB is a leading software package for genome-scale analysis of metabolism; however, it was not designed to elegantly capture the complexity inherent in integrated biological networks and lacks an integration framework for the multiomics data used in systems biology. The openCOBRA Project is a community effort to promote constraints-based research through the distribution of freely available software. ==Results Here, we describe COBRA for Python (COBRApy), a Python package that provides support for basic COBRA methods==. COBRApy is designed in an object-oriented fashion that facilitates the representation of the complex biological processes of metabolism and gene expression. COBRApy does not require MATLAB to function; however, it includes an interface to the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB to facilitate use of legacy codes. For improved performance, COBRApy includes parallel processing support for computationally intensive processes. Conclusion COBRApy is an object-oriented framework designed to meet the computational challenges associated with the next generation of stoichiometric constraint-based models and high-density omics data sets. Availability http://opencobra.sourceforge.net/

## Key concepts
#result/MATLAB; #metabolism; #result/biology; #result/SBML; #result/escherichia; #result/escherichia_coli; #result/flux_balance_analysis; #result/metabolic_network; #result/software_package; #gene_expression; #salmonella_typhimurium; #result/biological_network; #scale_modeling; #cellular_process; #scale_analysis; #multiomics

## Quote
> MATLAB is only necessary for accessing codes written in the COnstraint-Based Reconstruction and Analysis Toolbox for MATLAB; it is not necessary to run the majority of COBRA for Python functions


## Key points
- COnstraint-Based Reconstruction and Analysis (COBRA) methods are widely used for genome-scale modeling of metabolic networks in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes
- COBRA for Python (COBRApy) is a software package for constraints-based modeling that is designed to accommodate the increasing complexity of biological processes represented with COBRA methods
- COBRApy does not require commercial software for commonly used COBRA operations whereas the COBRA Toolbox depends on MATLAB
- As the COBRA Toolbox is in wide use, it will likely be used as a development and analysis platform for years to come
- To take advantage of legacy and future modules written for the COBRA Toolbox, COBRApy includes a module for directly interacting with the COBRA Toolbox and support for reading and writing COBRA Toolbox MATLAB structures
- MATLAB is only necessary for accessing codes written in the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB; it is not necessary to run the majority of COBRApy functions

## Synopsis

### Results
The authors describe COBRA for Python (COBRApy), a Python package that provides support for basic COBRA methods.
COBRApy is designed in an object-oriented fashion that facilitates the representation of the complex biological processes of metabolism and gene expression.
COBRApy does not require MATLAB to function; it includes an interface to the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB to facilitate use of legacy codes.
COBRApy includes parallel processing support for computationally intensive processes

### Conclusion
COBRApy is an object-oriented framework designed to meet the computational challenges associated with the generation of stoichiometric constraint-based models and high-density omics data sets.

### Background
Constraint based modeling approaches have been widely applied in the field of microbial metabolic engineering [^1],[^2] and have been employed in the analysis [^3],[^4],[^5] and, to a lesser extent, modeling of transcriptional [^6],[^7],[^8] and signaling [^9] networks.
The authors recently have developed a method for integrated modeling of gene expression and metabolism on the genome scale [^10].
The popularity of these approaches is due, in part, to the fact that they facilitate analysis of biological systems in the absence of a comprehensive set of parameters.
Constraintsbased approaches focus on employing data-driven physicochemical and biological constraints to enumerate the set of feasible phenotypic states of a reconstructed biological network in a given condition.
To drive COBRA research through this avalanche of omics and model increasingly complex biological processes [^10], the authors have developed an object-oriented implementation of core COBRA Toolbox functions using the Python programming language.
(6) cobra.mlab: an interface to the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB

### Results and discussion
COBRApy is a software package for constraints-based modeling that is designed to accommodate the increasing complexity of biological processes represented with COBRA methods.
The object-based design of COBRApy provides the user with the ability to directly access attributes for each object (Figure 1), whereas with the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB biological entities and their attributes are each contained within separate lists.
With COBRApy, a Metabolite object provides information about its chemical Formula and associated biochemical Reactions, whereas, with the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB, one must query multiple tables to access these values and modify multiple tables to update these values.
Flux balance analysis of M-Models has enjoyed substantial success in qualitative analyses of gene essentiality [^30]
These studies used simulations to identify which genes or synthetic lethal gene-pairs are essential for biomass production in a given condition.
COBRApy provides functions for automating single and double gene deletion studies in the cobra.flux_analysis module.
COBRApy provides automated functions for FVA in the cobra. flux_analysis.variability module

### Conclusions
COBRApy is a constraint-based modeling package that is designed to accommodate the biological complexity of the generation of COBRA models [^10] and provides access to commonly used COBRA methods, such as flux balance analysis [^35], flux variability analysis [^18], and gene deletion analyses [^43].
Through the mlabwrap module it is possible to use COBRApy to call many additional COBRA methods present in the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB [^19].
There are a wide range of legacy operations that are present in the COBRA Toolbox that can be accessed using mlabwrap [^42].
The COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB and ArrayBasedModel are not currently accessible from Jython.
License: GNU GPL version 3 or later
Competing interests This software was used by DRH, JAL, and BOP to develop the method that is the subject of a provisional patent application U.S Provisional Application Serial No 61/644,924 filed on May 9, 2012 entitled “Method for in silico modeling of gene product expression and metabolism”.

##  Builds on previous research
- Typhimurium LT2 model comes with a variety of media whose compositions are specified in the model’s media_compositions attribute. ==Here, w==e initialize the Model’s boundary conditions to mimic the minimal MgM medium [^36] and then perform a linear optimization to calculate the maximal flux through the Reaction biomass_iRR1083_metals

## Contributions
- COBRApy is a constraint-based modeling package that is designed to accommodate the biological complexity of the next generation of COBRA models [^10] and provides access to commonly used COBRA methods, such as flux balance analysis [^35], flux variability analysis [^18], and gene deletion analyses [^43]. Through the mlabwrap module it is possible to use COBRApy to call many additional COBRA methods present in the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB [^19]. As part of The openCOBRA Project, COBRApy serves as an enabling framework for which the community can develop and contribute application specific modules.<br/><br/>Advanced capabilities Because whole genome double deletion and FVA simulations can be time intensive with a single CPU, we have provided a function that uses Parallel Python [^41] to split the simulation across multiple CPUs for multicore machines. Additionally, there are a wide range of legacy operations that are present in the COBRA Toolbox that can be accessed using mlabwrap [^42]. MATLAB is only necessary for accessing codes written in the COBRA Toolbox for MATLAB; it is not necessary to run the majority of COBRApy functions.

## Data and code
- Software downloads, tutorials, forums, and detailed documentation are available at http://opencobra.sourceforge.net


## References
[^1]: Feist AM, Palsson BO. The growing scope of applications of genome-scale metabolic reconstructions using Escherichia coli. Nat Biotechnol 2008, 26:659–667. [[Feist_GrowingScopeApplicationsGenomescaleMetabolic_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20growing%20scope%20of%20applications%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%20using%20Escherichia%20coli%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20growing%20scope%20of%20applications%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%20using%20Escherichia%20coli%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20growing%20scope%20of%20applications%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%20using%20Escherichia%20coli%202008)

[^2]: Kim IK, Roldao A, Siewers V, Nielsen J. A systems-level approach for metabolic engineering of yeast cell factories. FEMS Yeast Res 2012, 12:228–248. [[Kim_et+al_SystemslevelApproachMetabolicEngineeringYeast_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kim%2C%20I.K.%20Roldao%2C%20A.%20Siewers%2C%20V.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20A%20systems-level%20approach%20for%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20yeast%20cell%20factories%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20I.K.%20Roldao%2C%20A.%20Siewers%2C%20V.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20A%20systems-level%20approach%20for%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20yeast%20cell%20factories%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kim%2C%20I.K.%20Roldao%2C%20A.%20Siewers%2C%20V.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20A%20systems-level%20approach%20for%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20yeast%20cell%20factories%202012)

[^3]: Liao JC, Boscolo R, Yang YL, Tran LM, Sabatti C, Roychowdhury VP. Network component analysis: reconstruction of regulatory signals in biological systems. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2003, 100:15522–15527. [[Liao_et+al_NetworkComponentAnalysisReconstructionRegulatory_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Boscolo%2C%20R.%20Yang%2C%20Y.L.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Network%20component%20analysis%3A%20reconstruction%20of%20regulatory%20signals%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Boscolo%2C%20R.%20Yang%2C%20Y.L.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Network%20component%20analysis%3A%20reconstruction%20of%20regulatory%20signals%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Boscolo%2C%20R.%20Yang%2C%20Y.L.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Network%20component%20analysis%3A%20reconstruction%20of%20regulatory%20signals%202003)

[^4]: Hyduke DR, Jarboe LR, Tran LM, Chou KJ, Liao JC. Integrated network analysis identifies nitric oxide response networks and dihydroxyacid dehydratase as a crucial target in Escherichia coli. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2007, 104:8484–8489. [[Hyduke_et+al_IntegratedNetworkAnalysisIdentifiesNitric_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Jarboe%2C%20L.R.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Chou%2C%20K.J.%20Integrated%20network%20analysis%20identifies%20nitric%20oxide%20response%20networks%20and%20dihydroxyacid%20dehydratase%20as%20a%20crucial%20target%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Jarboe%2C%20L.R.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Chou%2C%20K.J.%20Integrated%20network%20analysis%20identifies%20nitric%20oxide%20response%20networks%20and%20dihydroxyacid%20dehydratase%20as%20a%20crucial%20target%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Jarboe%2C%20L.R.%20Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Chou%2C%20K.J.%20Integrated%20network%20analysis%20identifies%20nitric%20oxide%20response%20networks%20and%20dihydroxyacid%20dehydratase%20as%20a%20crucial%20target%202007)

[^5]: Tran LM, Hyduke DR, Liao JC. Trimming of mammalian transcriptional networks using network component analysis. BMC Bioinforma 2010, 11:511. [[Tran_et+al_TrimmingMammalianTranscriptionalNetworksUsing_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Trimming%20of%20mammalian%20transcriptional%20networks%20using%20network%20component%20analysis%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Trimming%20of%20mammalian%20transcriptional%20networks%20using%20network%20component%20analysis%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tran%2C%20L.M.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Liao%2C%20J.C.%20Trimming%20of%20mammalian%20transcriptional%20networks%20using%20network%20component%20analysis%202010)

[^6]: Covert MW, Palsson BO. Transcriptional regulation in constraints-based metabolic models of Escherichia coli. J Biol Chem 2002, 277:28058–28064. [[Covert_TranscriptionalRegulationConstraintsbasedMetabolicModels_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002)

[^7]: Gianchandani EP, Joyce AR, Palsson BO, Papin JA. Functional states of the genome-scale Escherichia coli transcriptional regulatory system. PLoS Comput Biol 2009, 5:e1000403. [[Gianchandani_et+al_FunctionalStatesGenomescaleEscherichiaColi_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Functional%20states%20of%20the%20genome-scale%20Escherichia%20coli%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20system%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Functional%20states%20of%20the%20genome-scale%20Escherichia%20coli%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20system%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Functional%20states%20of%20the%20genome-scale%20Escherichia%20coli%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20system%202009)

[^8]: Thiele I, Jamshidi N, Fleming RM, Palsson BO. Genome-scale reconstruction of Escherichia coli’s transcriptional and translational machinery: a knowledge base, its mathematical formulation, and its functional characterization. PLoS Comput Biol 2009, 5:e1000312. [[Thiele_et+al_GenomescaleReconstructionEscherichiaColiTranscriptional_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Fleming%2C%20R.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%E2%80%99s%20transcriptional%20and%20translational%20machinery%3A%20a%20knowledge%20base%2C%20its%20mathematical%20formulation%2C%20and%20its%20functional%20characterization%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Fleming%2C%20R.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%E2%80%99s%20transcriptional%20and%20translational%20machinery%3A%20a%20knowledge%20base%2C%20its%20mathematical%20formulation%2C%20and%20its%20functional%20characterization%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Fleming%2C%20R.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%E2%80%99s%20transcriptional%20and%20translational%20machinery%3A%20a%20knowledge%20base%2C%20its%20mathematical%20formulation%2C%20and%20its%20functional%20characterization%202009)

[^9]: Hyduke DR, Palsson BO. Towards genome-scale signalling-network reconstructions. Nat Rev Genet 2010, 11:297–307. [[Hyduke_TowardsGenomescaleSignallingnetworkReconstructions_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20genome-scale%20signalling-network%20reconstructions%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20genome-scale%20signalling-network%20reconstructions%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20genome-scale%20signalling-network%20reconstructions%202010)

[^10]: Lerman JA, Hyduke DR, Latif H, Portnoy VA, Lewis NE, Orth JD, Schrimpe-Rutledge AC, Smith RD, Adkins JN, Zengler K, Palsson BO. In silico method for modelling metabolism and gene product expression at genome scale. Nat Commun 2012, 3:929. [[Lerman_et+al_SilicoMethodModellingMetabolismGene_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Latif%2C%20H.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.A.%20In%20silico%20method%20for%20modelling%20metabolism%20and%20gene%20product%20expression%20at%20genome%20scale%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Latif%2C%20H.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.A.%20In%20silico%20method%20for%20modelling%20metabolism%20and%20gene%20product%20expression%20at%20genome%20scale%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Latif%2C%20H.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.A.%20In%20silico%20method%20for%20modelling%20metabolism%20and%20gene%20product%20expression%20at%20genome%20scale%202012)

[^11]: Vazquez A, Beg QK, Demenezes MA, Ernst J, Bar-Joseph Z, Barabasi AL, Barabasi AL, Boros LG, Oltvai ZN. Impact of the solvent capacity constraint on E. coli metabolism. BMC Syst Biol 2008, 2:7. [[Vazquez_et+al_ImpactSolventCapacityConstraintE_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Beg%2C%20Q.K.%20Demenezes%2C%20M.A.%20Ernst%2C%20J.%20Impact%20of%20the%20solvent%20capacity%20constraint%20on%20E.%20coli%20metabolism%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Beg%2C%20Q.K.%20Demenezes%2C%20M.A.%20Ernst%2C%20J.%20Impact%20of%20the%20solvent%20capacity%20constraint%20on%20E.%20coli%20metabolism%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Beg%2C%20Q.K.%20Demenezes%2C%20M.A.%20Ernst%2C%20J.%20Impact%20of%20the%20solvent%20capacity%20constraint%20on%20E.%20coli%20metabolism%202008)

[^12]: Henry CS, Broadbelt LJ, Hatzimanikatis V. Thermodynamics-based metabolic flux analysis. Biophys J 2007, 92:1792–1805. [[Henry_et+al_ThermodynamicsbasedMetabolicFluxAnalysis_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Broadbelt%2C%20L.J.%20Hatzimanikatis%2C%20V.%20Thermodynamics-based%20metabolic%20flux%20analysis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Broadbelt%2C%20L.J.%20Hatzimanikatis%2C%20V.%20Thermodynamics-based%20metabolic%20flux%20analysis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Broadbelt%2C%20L.J.%20Hatzimanikatis%2C%20V.%20Thermodynamics-based%20metabolic%20flux%20analysis%202007)

[^13]: Gama-Castro S, Jimenez-Jacinto V, Peralta-Gil M, Santos-Zavaleta A, Penaloza-Spinola MI, Contreras-Moreira B, Segura-Salazar J, Muniz-Rascado L, Martinez-Flores I, Salgado H, Bonavides-Martinez C, Abreu-Goodger C, Rodriguez-Penagos C, Miranda-Rios J, Morett E, Merino E, Huerta AM, Trevino-Quintanilla L, Collado-Vides J. RegulonDB (version 6.0): gene regulation model of Escherichia coli K-12 beyond transcription, active (experimental) annotated promoters and Textpresso navigation. Nucleic Acids Res 2008, 36:D120–D124. [[Gama-Castro_et+al_Regulondbversion60GeneRegulation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gama-Castro%2C%20S.%20Jimenez-Jacinto%2C%20V.%20Peralta-Gil%2C%20M.%20Santos-Zavaleta%2C%20A.%20RegulonDB%20%28version%206.0%29%3A%20gene%20regulation%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20beyond%20transcription%2C%20active%20%28experimental%29%20annotated%20promoters%20and%20Textpresso%20navigation%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gama-Castro%2C%20S.%20Jimenez-Jacinto%2C%20V.%20Peralta-Gil%2C%20M.%20Santos-Zavaleta%2C%20A.%20RegulonDB%20%28version%206.0%29%3A%20gene%20regulation%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20beyond%20transcription%2C%20active%20%28experimental%29%20annotated%20promoters%20and%20Textpresso%20navigation%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gama-Castro%2C%20S.%20Jimenez-Jacinto%2C%20V.%20Peralta-Gil%2C%20M.%20Santos-Zavaleta%2C%20A.%20RegulonDB%20%28version%206.0%29%3A%20gene%20regulation%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20beyond%20transcription%2C%20active%20%28experimental%29%20annotated%20promoters%20and%20Textpresso%20navigation%202008)

[^14]: Colijn C, Brandes A, Zucker J, Lun DS, Weiner B, Farhat MR, Cheng TY, Moody DB, Murray M, Galagan JE. Interpreting expression data with metabolic flux models: predicting Mycobacterium tuberculosis mycolic acid production. PLoS Comput Biol 2009, 5:e1000489. [[Colijn_et+al_InterpretingExpressionDataWithMetabolic_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Colijn%2C%20C.%20Brandes%2C%20A.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Lun%2C%20D.S.%20Interpreting%20expression%20data%20with%20metabolic%20flux%20models%3A%20predicting%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20mycolic%20acid%20production%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Colijn%2C%20C.%20Brandes%2C%20A.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Lun%2C%20D.S.%20Interpreting%20expression%20data%20with%20metabolic%20flux%20models%3A%20predicting%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20mycolic%20acid%20production%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Colijn%2C%20C.%20Brandes%2C%20A.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Lun%2C%20D.S.%20Interpreting%20expression%20data%20with%20metabolic%20flux%20models%3A%20predicting%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20mycolic%20acid%20production%202009)

[^15]: Frezza C, Zheng L, Folger O, Rajagopalan KN, MacKenzie ED, Jerby L, Micaroni M, Chaneton B, Adam J, Hedley A, Kalna G, Tomlinson IP, Pollard PJ, Watson DG, Deberardinis RJ, Shlomi T, Ruppin E, Gottlieb E. Haem oxygenase is synthetically lethal with the tumour suppressor fumarate hydratase. Nature 2011, 477:225–228. [[Frezza_et+al_HaemOxygenaseSyntheticallyLethalWith_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Frezza%2C%20C.%20Zheng%2C%20L.%20Folger%2C%20O.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20K.N.%20Haem%20oxygenase%20is%20synthetically%20lethal%20with%20the%20tumour%20suppressor%20fumarate%20hydratase%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frezza%2C%20C.%20Zheng%2C%20L.%20Folger%2C%20O.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20K.N.%20Haem%20oxygenase%20is%20synthetically%20lethal%20with%20the%20tumour%20suppressor%20fumarate%20hydratase%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Frezza%2C%20C.%20Zheng%2C%20L.%20Folger%2C%20O.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20K.N.%20Haem%20oxygenase%20is%20synthetically%20lethal%20with%20the%20tumour%20suppressor%20fumarate%20hydratase%202011)

[^16]: Bordbar A, Mo ML, Nakayasu ES, Schrimpe-Rutledge AC, Kim YM, Metz TO, Jones MB, Frank BC, Smith RD, Peterson SN, Hyduke DR, Adkins JN, Palsson BO. Model-driven multi-omic data analysis elucidates metabolic immunomodulators of macrophage activation. Mol Syst Biol 2012, 8:558. [[Bordbar_et+al_ModeldrivenMultiomicDataAnalysisElucidates_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bordbar%2C%20A.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Nakayasu%2C%20E.S.%20Schrimpe-Rutledge%2C%20A.C.%20Model-driven%20multi-omic%20data%20analysis%20elucidates%20metabolic%20immunomodulators%20of%20macrophage%20activation%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bordbar%2C%20A.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Nakayasu%2C%20E.S.%20Schrimpe-Rutledge%2C%20A.C.%20Model-driven%20multi-omic%20data%20analysis%20elucidates%20metabolic%20immunomodulators%20of%20macrophage%20activation%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bordbar%2C%20A.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Nakayasu%2C%20E.S.%20Schrimpe-Rutledge%2C%20A.C.%20Model-driven%20multi-omic%20data%20analysis%20elucidates%20metabolic%20immunomodulators%20of%20macrophage%20activation%202012)

[^17]: Hyduke DR, Lewis NE, Palsson BO. Analysis of omics data with genome-scale models of metabolism. Mol Biosyst 2013, 9:167–174. [[Hyduke_et+al_AnalysisOmicsDataWithGenomescale_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Analysis%20of%20omics%20data%20with%20genome-scale%20models%20of%20metabolism%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Analysis%20of%20omics%20data%20with%20genome-scale%20models%20of%20metabolism%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Analysis%20of%20omics%20data%20with%20genome-scale%20models%20of%20metabolism%202013)

[^18]: Mahadevan R, Schilling CH. The effects of alternate optimal solutions in constraint-based genome-scale metabolic models. Metab Eng 2003, 5:264–276. [[Mahadevan_EffectsAlternateOptimalSolutionsConstraintbased_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003)

[^19]: Schellenberger J, Que R, Fleming RM, Thiele I, Orth JD, Feist AM, Zielinski DC, Bordbar A, Lewis NE, Rahmanian S, Kang J, Hyduke DR, Palsson BO. Quantitative prediction of cellular metabolism with constraint-based models: the COBRA toolbox v2.0. Nat Protoc 2011, 6:1290–1307. [[Schellenberger_et+al_QuantitativePredictionCellularMetabolismWith_2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Que%2C%20R.%20Fleming%2C%20R.M.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20toolbox%20v2.0%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Que%2C%20R.%20Fleming%2C%20R.M.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20toolbox%20v2.0%202011) 

[^20]: Medema MH, van Raaphorst R, Takano E, Breitling R. Computational tools for the synthetic design of biochemical pathways. Nat Rev Microbiol 2012, 10:191–202. [[Medema_et+al_ComputationalToolsSyntheticDesignBiochemical_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Medema%2C%20M.H.%20van%20Raaphorst%2C%20R.%20Takano%2C%20E.%20Breitling%2C%20R.%20Computational%20tools%20for%20the%20synthetic%20design%20of%20biochemical%20pathways%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Medema%2C%20M.H.%20van%20Raaphorst%2C%20R.%20Takano%2C%20E.%20Breitling%2C%20R.%20Computational%20tools%20for%20the%20synthetic%20design%20of%20biochemical%20pathways%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Medema%2C%20M.H.%20van%20Raaphorst%2C%20R.%20Takano%2C%20E.%20Breitling%2C%20R.%20Computational%20tools%20for%20the%20synthetic%20design%20of%20biochemical%20pathways%202012)

[^21]: Hucka M, Finney A, Bornstein BJ, Keating SM, Shapiro BE, Matthews J, Kovitz BL, Schilstra MJ, Funahashi A, Doyle JC, Kitano H. Evolving a lingua franca and associated software infrastructure for computational systems biology: the Systems Biology Markup Language (SBML) project. Syst Biol (Stevenage) 2004, 1:41–53. [[Hucka_et+al_EvolvingLinguaFrancaAssociatedSoftware_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hucka%2C%20M.%20Finney%2C%20A.%20Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Evolving%20a%20lingua%20franca%20and%20associated%20software%20infrastructure%20for%20computational%20systems%20biology%3A%20the%20Systems%20Biology%20Markup%20Language%20%28SBML%29%20project%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hucka%2C%20M.%20Finney%2C%20A.%20Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Evolving%20a%20lingua%20franca%20and%20associated%20software%20infrastructure%20for%20computational%20systems%20biology%3A%20the%20Systems%20Biology%20Markup%20Language%20%28SBML%29%20project%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hucka%2C%20M.%20Finney%2C%20A.%20Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Evolving%20a%20lingua%20franca%20and%20associated%20software%20infrastructure%20for%20computational%20systems%20biology%3A%20the%20Systems%20Biology%20Markup%20Language%20%28SBML%29%20project%202004)

[^22]: Patil KR, Nielsen J. Uncovering transcriptional regulation of metabolism by using metabolic network topology. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2005, 102:2685–2689. [[Patil_UncoveringTranscriptionalRegulationMetabolismUsing_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Patil%2C%20K.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Uncovering%20transcriptional%20regulation%20of%20metabolism%20by%20using%20metabolic%20network%20topology%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Patil%2C%20K.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Uncovering%20transcriptional%20regulation%20of%20metabolism%20by%20using%20metabolic%20network%20topology%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Patil%2C%20K.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Uncovering%20transcriptional%20regulation%20of%20metabolism%20by%20using%20metabolic%20network%20topology%202005)

[^23]: Lakshmanan M, Koh G, Chung BK, Lee DY. Software applications for flux balance analysis. Brief Bioinform 2012. [[Lakshmanan_et+al_SoftwareApplicationsFluxBalanceAnalysis_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lakshmanan%2C%20M.%20Koh%2C%20G.%20Chung%2C%20B.K.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Software%20applications%20for%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lakshmanan%2C%20M.%20Koh%2C%20G.%20Chung%2C%20B.K.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Software%20applications%20for%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lakshmanan%2C%20M.%20Koh%2C%20G.%20Chung%2C%20B.K.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Software%20applications%20for%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202012)

[^24]: Klamt S, von Kamp A. An application programming interface for Cell NetAnalyzer. Biosystems 2011, 105:162–168. [[Klamt_ApplicationProgrammingInterfaceCellNetanalyzer_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Klamt%2C%20S.%20von%20Kamp%2C%20A.%20An%20application%20programming%20interface%20for%20Cell%20NetAnalyzer%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Klamt%2C%20S.%20von%20Kamp%2C%20A.%20An%20application%20programming%20interface%20for%20Cell%20NetAnalyzer%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Klamt%2C%20S.%20von%20Kamp%2C%20A.%20An%20application%20programming%20interface%20for%20Cell%20NetAnalyzer%202011)

[^25]: Hoppe A, Hoffmann S, Gerasch A, Gille C, Holzhutter HG. FASIMU: flexible software for flux-balance computation series in large metabolic networks. BMC Bioinforma 2011, 12:28. [[Hoppe_et+al_FasimuFlexibleSoftwareFluxbalanceComputation_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Gerasch%2C%20A.%20Gille%2C%20C.%20FASIMU%3A%20flexible%20software%20for%20flux-balance%20computation%20series%20in%20large%20metabolic%20networks%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Gerasch%2C%20A.%20Gille%2C%20C.%20FASIMU%3A%20flexible%20software%20for%20flux-balance%20computation%20series%20in%20large%20metabolic%20networks%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Gerasch%2C%20A.%20Gille%2C%20C.%20FASIMU%3A%20flexible%20software%20for%20flux-balance%20computation%20series%20in%20large%20metabolic%20networks%202011)

[^26]: Olivier BG, Rohwer JM, Hofmeyr JH. Modelling cellular systems with PySCeS. Bioinformatics 2005, 21:560–561. [[Olivier_et+al_ModellingCellularSystemsWithPysces_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olivier%2C%20B.G.%20Rohwer%2C%20J.M.%20Hofmeyr%2C%20J.H.%20Modelling%20cellular%20systems%20with%20PySCeS%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olivier%2C%20B.G.%20Rohwer%2C%20J.M.%20Hofmeyr%2C%20J.H.%20Modelling%20cellular%20systems%20with%20PySCeS%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olivier%2C%20B.G.%20Rohwer%2C%20J.M.%20Hofmeyr%2C%20J.H.%20Modelling%20cellular%20systems%20with%20PySCeS%202005)

[^27]: Agren R, Liu L, Shoaie S, Vongsangnak W, Nookaew I, Nielsen J. The RAVEN toolbox and its use for generating a genome-scale metabolic model for penicillium chrysogenum. PLoS Comput Biol 2013, 9:e1002980. [[Agren_et+al_RavenToolboxGeneratingGenomescaleMetabolic_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Agren%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Shoaie%2C%20S.%20Vongsangnak%2C%20W.%20The%20RAVEN%20toolbox%20and%20its%20use%20for%20generating%20a%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20for%20penicillium%20chrysogenum%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agren%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Shoaie%2C%20S.%20Vongsangnak%2C%20W.%20The%20RAVEN%20toolbox%20and%20its%20use%20for%20generating%20a%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20for%20penicillium%20chrysogenum%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Agren%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20L.%20Shoaie%2C%20S.%20Vongsangnak%2C%20W.%20The%20RAVEN%20toolbox%20and%20its%20use%20for%20generating%20a%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20for%20penicillium%20chrysogenum%202013)

[^28]: Wright J, Wagner A. The systems biology research tool: evolvable open-source software. BMC Syst Biol 2008, 2:55. [[Wright_SystemsBiologyResearchToolEvolvable_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wright%2C%20J.%20Wagner%2C%20A.%20The%20systems%20biology%20research%20tool%3A%20evolvable%20open-source%20software%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wright%2C%20J.%20Wagner%2C%20A.%20The%20systems%20biology%20research%20tool%3A%20evolvable%20open-source%20software%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wright%2C%20J.%20Wagner%2C%20A.%20The%20systems%20biology%20research%20tool%3A%20evolvable%20open-source%20software%202008)

[^29]: The openCOBRA Project. http://opencobra.sourceforge.net [[The_OpencobraProject_0000]] [OA](http://opencobra.sourceforge.net)  

[^30]: Thiele I, Hyduke DR, Steeb B, Fankam G, Allen DK, Bazzani S, Charusanti P, Chen FC, Fleming RM, Hsiung CA, De Keersmaecker SC, Liao YC, Marchal K, Mo ML, Ozdemir E, Raghunathan A, Reed JL, Shin SI, Sigurbjornsdottir S, Steinmann J, Sudarsan S, Swainston N, Thijs IM, Zengler K, Palsson BO, Adkins JN, Bumann D. A community effort towards a knowledge-base and mathematical model of the human pathogen Salmonella Typhimurium LT2. BMC Syst Biol 2011, 5:8. [[Thiele_et+al_CommunityEffortTowardsKnowledgebaseMathematical_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Steeb%2C%20B.%20Fankam%2C%20G.%20A%20community%20effort%20towards%20a%20knowledge-base%20and%20mathematical%20model%20of%20the%20human%20pathogen%20Salmonella%20Typhimurium%20LT2%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Steeb%2C%20B.%20Fankam%2C%20G.%20A%20community%20effort%20towards%20a%20knowledge-base%20and%20mathematical%20model%20of%20the%20human%20pathogen%20Salmonella%20Typhimurium%20LT2%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thiele%2C%20I.%20Hyduke%2C%20D.R.%20Steeb%2C%20B.%20Fankam%2C%20G.%20A%20community%20effort%20towards%20a%20knowledge-base%20and%20mathematical%20model%20of%20the%20human%20pathogen%20Salmonella%20Typhimurium%20LT2%202011)

[^31]: Orth JD, Conrad TM, Na J, Lerman JA, Nam H, Feist AM, Palsson BO. A comprehensive genome-scale reconstruction of Escherichia coli metabolism–2011. Mol Syst Biol 2011, 7:535. [[Orth_et+al_ComprehensiveGenomescaleReconstructionEscherichiaColi_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Na%2C%20J.%20Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20A%20comprehensive%20genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%E2%80%932011%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Na%2C%20J.%20Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20A%20comprehensive%20genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%E2%80%932011%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Na%2C%20J.%20Lerman%2C%20J.A.%20A%20comprehensive%20genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%E2%80%932011%202011)

[^32]: Bornstein BJ, Keating SM, Jouraku A, Hucka M. LibSBML: an API library for SBML. Bioinformatics 2008, 24:880–881. [[Bornstein_et+al_LibsbmlApiLibrarySbml_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Jouraku%2C%20A.%20Hucka%2C%20M.%20LibSBML%3A%20an%20API%20library%20for%20SBML%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Jouraku%2C%20A.%20Hucka%2C%20M.%20LibSBML%3A%20an%20API%20library%20for%20SBML%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bornstein%2C%20B.J.%20Keating%2C%20S.M.%20Jouraku%2C%20A.%20Hucka%2C%20M.%20LibSBML%3A%20an%20API%20library%20for%20SBML%202008)

[^33]: Henry CS, Dejongh M, Best AA, Frybarger PM, Linsay B, Stevens RL. High-throughput generation, optimization and analysis of genome-scale metabolic models. Nat Biotechnol 2010, 28:977–982. [[Henry_et+al_HighthroughputGenerationOptimizationAnalysisGenomescale_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Dejongh%2C%20M.%20Best%2C%20A.A.%20Frybarger%2C%20P.M.%20High-throughput%20generation%2C%20optimization%20and%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Dejongh%2C%20M.%20Best%2C%20A.A.%20Frybarger%2C%20P.M.%20High-throughput%20generation%2C%20optimization%20and%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Dejongh%2C%20M.%20Best%2C%20A.A.%20Frybarger%2C%20P.M.%20High-throughput%20generation%2C%20optimization%20and%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202010)

[^34]: Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N, Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL, Hucka M, Le Novere N, Laibe C. BioModels Database: an enhanced, curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst Biol 2010, 4:92. [[Li_et+al_BiomodelsDatabaseEnhancedCuratedAnnotated_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20C.%20Donizelli%2C%20M.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dharuri%2C%20H.%20BioModels%20Database%3A%20an%20enhanced%2C%20curated%20and%20annotated%20resource%20for%20published%20quantitative%20kinetic%20models%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20C.%20Donizelli%2C%20M.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dharuri%2C%20H.%20BioModels%20Database%3A%20an%20enhanced%2C%20curated%20and%20annotated%20resource%20for%20published%20quantitative%20kinetic%20models%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20C.%20Donizelli%2C%20M.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dharuri%2C%20H.%20BioModels%20Database%3A%20an%20enhanced%2C%20curated%20and%20annotated%20resource%20for%20published%20quantitative%20kinetic%20models%202010)

[^35]: Orth JD, Thiele I, Palsson BO. What is flux balance analysis? Nat Biotechnol 2010, 28:245–248. [[Orth_et+al_WhatFluxBalanceAnalysis_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20What%20is%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3F%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20What%20is%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3F%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Orth%2C%20J.D.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20What%20is%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3F%202010)

[^36]: Beuzon CR, Banks G, Deiwick J, Hensel M, Holden DW: pH-dependent secretion of SseB, a product of the SPI-2 type III secretion system of Salmonella typhimurium. Mol Microbiol 1999, 33:806–816. [[Beuzon_et+al_DwPhdependentSecretionSsebProduct_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beuzon%2C%20C.R.%20Banks%2C%20G.%20Deiwick%2C%20J.%20Hensel%2C%20M.%20DW%3A%20pH-dependent%20secretion%20of%20SseB%2C%20a%20product%20of%20the%20SPI-2%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beuzon%2C%20C.R.%20Banks%2C%20G.%20Deiwick%2C%20J.%20Hensel%2C%20M.%20DW%3A%20pH-dependent%20secretion%20of%20SseB%2C%20a%20product%20of%20the%20SPI-2%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beuzon%2C%20C.R.%20Banks%2C%20G.%20Deiwick%2C%20J.%20Hensel%2C%20M.%20DW%3A%20pH-dependent%20secretion%20of%20SseB%2C%20a%20product%20of%20the%20SPI-2%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201999)

[^37]: Schaechter M, Maaloe O, Kjeldgaard NO. Dependency on medium and temperature of cell size and chemical composition during balanced grown of Salmonella typhimurium. J Gen Microbiol 1958, 19:592–606. [[Schaechter_et+al_DependencyMediumTemperatureCellSize_1958]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schaechter%2C%20M.%20Maaloe%2C%20O.%20Kjeldgaard%2C%20N.O.%20Dependency%20on%20medium%20and%20temperature%20of%20cell%20size%20and%20chemical%20composition%20during%20balanced%20grown%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201958) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schaechter%2C%20M.%20Maaloe%2C%20O.%20Kjeldgaard%2C%20N.O.%20Dependency%20on%20medium%20and%20temperature%20of%20cell%20size%20and%20chemical%20composition%20during%20balanced%20grown%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201958) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schaechter%2C%20M.%20Maaloe%2C%20O.%20Kjeldgaard%2C%20N.O.%20Dependency%20on%20medium%20and%20temperature%20of%20cell%20size%20and%20chemical%20composition%20during%20balanced%20grown%20of%20Salmonella%20typhimurium%201958)

[^38]: Pramanik J, Keasling JD. Stoichiometric model of Escherichia coli metabolism: incorporation of growth-rate dependent biomass composition and mechanistic energy requirements. Biotechnol Bioeng 1997, 56:398–421. [[Pramanik_StoichiometricModelEscherichiaColiMetabolism_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pramanik%2C%20J.%20Keasling%2C%20J.D.%20Stoichiometric%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%3A%20incorporation%20of%20growth-rate%20dependent%20biomass%20composition%20and%20mechanistic%20energy%20requirements%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pramanik%2C%20J.%20Keasling%2C%20J.D.%20Stoichiometric%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%3A%20incorporation%20of%20growth-rate%20dependent%20biomass%20composition%20and%20mechanistic%20energy%20requirements%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pramanik%2C%20J.%20Keasling%2C%20J.D.%20Stoichiometric%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolism%3A%20incorporation%20of%20growth-rate%20dependent%20biomass%20composition%20and%20mechanistic%20energy%20requirements%201997)

[^39]: Burgard AP, Pharkya P, Maranas CD. Optknock: a bilevel programming framework for identifying gene knockout strategies for microbial strain optimization. Biotechnol Bioeng 2003, 84:647–657. [[Burgard_et+al_OptknockBilevelProgrammingFrameworkIdentifying_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003)

[^40]: Schellenberger J, Lewis NE, Palsson BO. Elimination of thermodynamically infeasible loops in steady-state metabolic models. Biophys J 2011, 100:544–553. [[Schellenberger_et+al_EliminationThermodynamicallyInfeasibleLoopsSteadystate_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Elimination%20of%20thermodynamically%20infeasible%20loops%20in%20steady-state%20metabolic%20models%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Elimination%20of%20thermodynamically%20infeasible%20loops%20in%20steady-state%20metabolic%20models%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Elimination%20of%20thermodynamically%20infeasible%20loops%20in%20steady-state%20metabolic%20models%202011)

[^41]: Parallel Python. http://parallelpython.com 42.mlabwrap.http://mlabwrap.sourceforge.net [[Python__0000]] [OA](http://parallelpython.com)  

[^43]: Lewis NE, Nagarajan H, Palsson BO. Constraining the metabolic genotype-phenotype relationship using a phylogeny of in silico methods. Nat Rev Microbiol 2012, 10:291–305. [[Lewis_et+al_ConstrainingMetabolicGenotypephenotypeRelationshipUsing_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Nagarajan%2C%20H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Constraining%20the%20metabolic%20genotype-phenotype%20relationship%20using%20a%20phylogeny%20of%20in%20silico%20methods%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Nagarajan%2C%20H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Constraining%20the%20metabolic%20genotype-phenotype%20relationship%20using%20a%20phylogeny%20of%20in%20silico%20methods%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lewis%2C%20N.E.%20Nagarajan%2C%20H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Constraining%20the%20metabolic%20genotype-phenotype%20relationship%20using%20a%20phylogeny%20of%20in%20silico%20methods%202012)

[^44]: GLPK. http://www.gnu.org/software/glpk 45. PyGLPK (not python-glpk).http://www.tfinley.net/software/pyglpk 46. SciPy / NumPy.http://scipy.org [[G_PyglpkPythonglpkhttptfinleysoftwarepyglpk46_0000]] [OA](http://www.gnu.org/software/glpk)  

[^47]: Drager A, Rodriguez N, Dumousseau M, Dorr A, Wrzodek C, Le Novere N, Zell A, Hucka M. JSBML: a flexible Java library for working with SBML. Bioinformatics 2011, 27:2167–2168. [[Drager_et+al_JsbmlFlexibleJavaLibraryWorking_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Drager%2C%20A.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dumousseau%2C%20M.%20Dorr%2C%20A.%20JSBML%3A%20a%20flexible%20Java%20library%20for%20working%20with%20SBML%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Drager%2C%20A.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dumousseau%2C%20M.%20Dorr%2C%20A.%20JSBML%3A%20a%20flexible%20Java%20library%20for%20working%20with%20SBML%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Drager%2C%20A.%20Rodriguez%2C%20N.%20Dumousseau%2C%20M.%20Dorr%2C%20A.%20JSBML%3A%20a%20flexible%20Java%20library%20for%20working%20with%20SBML%202011)

[^48]: GLPK for Java. http://glpk-java.sourceforge.net doi:10.1186/1752-0509-7-74 Cite this article as: Ebrahim et al.: COBRApy: COnstraints-Based Reconstruction and Analysis for Python. BMC Systems Biology 2013 7:74. [[For_10118617520509774CiteThisArticle_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1186/1752-0509-7-74)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1186/1752-0509-7-74)

[^Submit_0000_b]: Submit your manuscript at www.biomedcentral.com/submit [[Submit_SubmitYourManuscript_0000]] [OA](http://www.biomedcentral.com/submit)  

