[[Govindarajulu_et+al_NitrogenTransferArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2005]]

# [Nitrogen transfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis](https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature03610)

## [[Manjula Govindarajulu]]; [[Philip E. Pfeffer]]; [[Hairu Jin]] et al.

### 2005

## Abstract
==Most land plants are symbiotic with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi== (AMF), ==which take up mineral nutrients from the soil== and exchange them with plants for photosynthetically fixed carbon. ==This exchange is a significant factor in global nutrient cycles==[^1] as well as in the ecology[^2], evolution[^3] and physiology[^4] of plants. Despite its importance as a nutrient, very little is known about ==how AMF take up nitrogen== and transfer it to their host plants[^5]. Here ==we report the results of stable isotope labelling experiments showing that inorganic nitrogen taken up== ==by the fungus outside the roots is incorporated into amino acids==, translocated from the extraradical to the intraradical mycelium as arginine, but transferred to the plant without carbon. Consistent with this mechanism, ==the genes of primary nitrogen assimilation are preferentially expressed in the extraradical tissues==, ==whereas genes associated with arginine breakdown are more highly expressed in the intraradical mycelium==. Strong changes in the expression of these genes in response to nitrogen availability and form also support the operation of this novel metabolic pathway in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis.

## Key concepts
#finding/amino_acid; #finding/arginine; #method/symbiosis; #claim/mycelium; #method/glomus; #method/arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #method/polymerase_chain_reaction; #method/glutamate_dehydrogenase; #method/metabolism; #method/gas_chromatography_mass_spectrometry; #mineral_nutrient

## Quote
> Despite the identification in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi of enzymes and genes of primary nitrogen assimilation and catabolism, we know very little about how nitrogen is transferred from fungus to 01 plant


## Key points
- Most land plants are symbiotic with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), which take up mineral nutrients from the soil and exchange them with plants for photosynthetically fixed carbon
- Despite the identification in AMF of enzymes and genes of primary nitrogen assimilation and catabolism, we know very little about how nitrogen is transferred from fungus to 01 plant
- We do not know the form in which nitrogen is translocated within the fungus from the hyphae in the soil to the fungal structures within roots, or the form in which nitrogen is transferred across the mycorrhizal interface to the plant
- The absence of 13C labelling in mycorrhizal root proteins indicates that the labelled free amino acids found in mycorrhizal root tissues after provisioning the extraradical mycelium (ERM) with 13C acetate are in the intraradical mycelium 05 (IRM), and that they are broken down to release inorganic nitrogen inside the fungus before transfer to the host
- Supplying 15N arginine to the ERM resulted in 15N labelling of all the free amino acids in the root tissue, including those present at high levels in uncolonized roots and at low levels in the ERM
- The suggestion that NO32 is directly transferred from the ERM to the IRM and to the plant[^29] is not supported by the strong induction of glutamine synthase transcripts in the ERM, observed when NO32 is provided to the ERM; the high levels of labelling in ERM amino acids after 15NO32 is supplied to the fungal compartment points to the assimilation of NO32 into amino acids in the ERM

## Synopsis
Most land plants are symbiotic with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), which take up mineral nutrients from the soil and exchange them with plants for photosynthetically fixed carbon.
The free amino acids of the ERM became highly labelled after this tissue was exposed to either 15NO32 (Fig. 1a) or 15NH4þ added to the fungal compartment.
15N labelling in the free amino acid pool from 02 colonized roots was very high (Fig. 1b), demonstrating nitrogen translocation to the colonized roots.
The average 15N level in the nitrogen of root protein amino acids was 29.0 ^ 1.0%, which shows that close to one-third of the total nitrogen in the roots was provided by the fungus from inorganic nitrogen taken up by the fungal ERM in the fungal compartment.
15N labelling of the free amino acids of roots after supplying 15NO32 or Shawna Row1e5NH4þ to the fungal compartment was very high, even when the nitrogen levels supplied in the root compartment were threefold higher than in this study
The alternative explanation that 13C from acetate is transferred to the IRM as storage lipid[^18] or carbohydrate and made Shawna Rowiento amino acids is unlikely, because fungal compounds such as storage lipids and trehalose within the mycorrhizal roots did not 06 become labelled in such experiments[^23].
If nitrogen is transferred to the host root in the form of one or Shawna Rowme ore free amino acids, one would expect to see 13C labelling in amino acids of isolated root proteins after 13C acetate supply to the ERM.
The absence of 13C labelling in mycorrhizal root proteins indicates that the labelled free amino acids found in mycorrhizal root tissues after provisioning the ERM with 13C acetate are in the IRM, and that they are broken down to release inorganic nitrogen inside the fungus before transfer to the host.
Supplying 15N arginine to the ERM resulted in 15N labelling of all the free amino acids in the root tissue, including those present at high levels in uncolonized roots and at low levels in the ERM.
The suggestion that NO32 is directly transferred from the ERM to the IRM and to the plant[^29] is not supported by the strong induction of glutamine synthase transcripts in the ERM, observed when NO32 is provided to the ERM; the high levels of labelling in ERM amino acids after 15NO32 is supplied to the fungal compartment points to the assimilation of NO32 into amino acids in the ERM.
To test the possibility that nitrogen moved across the barrier, the authors conducted experiments in which 13C-labelled glucose was supplied to the fungal or colonized root compartment.

## Data analysis
- #method/pico_tag_method

## Findings
- We found that when 14C-labelled amino acids (alanine, arginine, glutamate, glutamine, or ornithine) were provided to uncolonized roots, between 10% and 20% of the amino acids that were taken up in one week were recovered in the soluble protein extracted from the roots
- After 6 weeks, 34% of the free arginine in the ERM and 33% of the free arginine in the colonized roots showed 13CU6 labelling (Fig. 2)

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- Free amino Shawna Rowaecids in the ERM became highly labelled (Fig. 1c), with 34–76% of the molecules of the three abundant amino acids arginine, glutamate and aspartate having one or more 13C atoms. This finding indicates that the carbon skeletons of these amino acids are synthesized in the ERM, ==consistent with previous observations that acetate can enter central metabolism in the ERM via acetyl CoA and the glyoxylate cycle==[^17]
- Arginine levels are also substantially higher in colonized compared with uncolonized roots (54.2 ^ 19.3% versus 10.9 ^ 4.8% of free amino acids). This is ==consistent with a previous observation==[^11], and, together with the finding that arginine in the ERM is rapidly turned over (I
- On the basis of these labelling patterns, we conclude that arginine synthesized in the ERM is translocated by the fungus from the ERM to the IRM, but that it is not transferred to the host; rather it is broken down in the IRM and nitrogen is transferred to the host as ammonium. This proposed mechanism, illustrated in Fig. 3, is ==consistent with both the suggestion that arginine may be involved in nitrogen transfer[^11] and a hypothetical scheme we have previously presented==[^25]
- We tested this prediction by measuring messenger RNA levels for key enzymes in ERM and IRM tissues by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Figure 4a shows that glutamine synthase expression follows this prediction, particularly when NO32 is added to the ERM compartment, ==supporting previous findings that nitrogen assimilation occurs in the ERM via the glutamine synthetase==–glutamate synthase (GS–GOGAT) pathway[^11]

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- This was true regardless of whether NO32 or NH4þ was added to the ERM compartment, although the effect was greater for NH4þ treatments. ==The suggestion that NO32 is directly transferred from the ERM to the IRM and then to the plant[^29] is not supported by the strong induction of glutamine synthase transcripts in the ERM==, observed when NO32 is provided to the ERM; similarly the high levels of labelling in ERM amino acids after 15NO32 is supplied to the fungal compartment points to the assimilation of NO32 into amino acids in the ERM

## Data and code
- Reprints and permissions information is available at npg.nature.com/reprintsandpermissions


## References
[^1]: Read, D. J. & Perez-Moreno, J. Mycorrhizas and nutrient cycling in ecosystems — a journey towards relevance? New Phytol. 157, 475–-492 (2003). [[Read_MycorrhizasNutrientCyclingEcosystems_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Read%2C%20D.J.%20Perez-Moreno%2C%20J.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20in%20ecosystems%20%E2%80%94%20a%20journey%20towards%20relevance%3F%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Read%2C%20D.J.%20Perez-Moreno%2C%20J.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20in%20ecosystems%20%E2%80%94%20a%20journey%20towards%20relevance%3F%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Read%2C%20D.J.%20Perez-Moreno%2C%20J.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20in%20ecosystems%20%E2%80%94%20a%20journey%20towards%20relevance%3F%202003)

[^2]: Allen, M. F., Swenson, W., Querejeta, J. I., Egerton-Warburton, L. M. & Treseder, K. K. Ecology of Mycorrhizae: A conceptual framework for complex interactions among plants and fungi. Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 41, 271–-303 (2003). [[Allen_et+al_EcologyMycorrhizaeConceptualFrameworkComplex_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Swenson%2C%20W.%20Querejeta%2C%20J.I.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Ecology%20of%20Mycorrhizae%3A%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20for%20complex%20interactions%20among%20plants%20and%20fungi%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Swenson%2C%20W.%20Querejeta%2C%20J.I.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Ecology%20of%20Mycorrhizae%3A%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20for%20complex%20interactions%20among%20plants%20and%20fungi%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Swenson%2C%20W.%20Querejeta%2C%20J.I.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Ecology%20of%20Mycorrhizae%3A%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20for%20complex%20interactions%20among%20plants%20and%20fungi%202003)

[^3]: Redecker, D., Kodner, R. & Graham, L. E. Glomalean fungi from the Ordovician. Science 289, 1920–-1921 (2000). [[Redecker_et+al_GlomaleanFungiFromOrdovician_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000)

[^4]: Marschner, H. Mineral Nutrition of Higher Plants 2nd edn (Academic, London, 1995). [[Marschner_MineralNutritionHigherPlants_1995]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Mineral%20Nutrition%20of%20Higher%20Plants%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Mineral%20Nutrition%20of%20Higher%20Plants%201995) 

[^5]: He, X.-H., Critchley, C. & Bledsoe, C. Nitrogen transfer within and between plants through common mycorrhizal networks (CMNs). Crit. Rev. Plant Sci. 22, 531–-567 (2003). [[He_et+al_NitrogenTransferWithinBetweenPlants_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=He%2C%20X.-H.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Crit%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=He%2C%20X.-H.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Crit%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=He%2C%20X.-H.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Crit%202003)

[^6]: Smith, S. E. & Read, D. J. Mycorrhizal Symbiosis 2nd edn (Academic, San Diego, California, 1997). [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%201997) 

[^7]: Harrison, M. J. & Van Buuren, M. L. A phosphate transporter from the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme. Nature 378, 626–-629 (1995). [[Harrison_PhosphateTransporterFromMycorrhizalFungus_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Van%20Buuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995)

[^8]: Ames, R. N., Reid, C. P. P., Porter, L. K. & Cambardella, C. Hyphal uptake and transport of nitrogen from two 15N-labelled sources by Glomus mosseae, a vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 95, 381–-396 (1983). [[Ames_et+al_HyphalUptakeTransportNitrogenFrom_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Reid%2C%20C.P.P.%20Porter%2C%20L.K.%20Cambardella%2C%20C.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Reid%2C%20C.P.P.%20Porter%2C%20L.K.%20Cambardella%2C%20C.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ames%2C%20R.N.%20Reid%2C%20C.P.P.%20Porter%2C%20L.K.%20Cambardella%2C%20C.%20Hyphal%20uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20nitrogen%20from%20two%2015N-labelled%20sources%20by%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201983)

[^9]: Hodge, A., Campbell, C. D. & Fitter, A. H. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature 413, 297–-299 (2001). [[Hodge_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^10]: Bago, B., Vierheilig, H., Piche, Y. & Azcon-Aguilar, C. Nitrate depletion and pH changes induced by the extraradical mycelium of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices grown in monoxenic culture. New Phytol. 133, 273–-280 (1996). [[Bago_et+al_NitrateDepletionPhChangesInduced_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Piche%2C%20Y.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Nitrate%20depletion%20and%20pH%20changes%20induced%20by%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20grown%20in%20monoxenic%20culture%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Piche%2C%20Y.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Nitrate%20depletion%20and%20pH%20changes%20induced%20by%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20grown%20in%20monoxenic%20culture%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Piche%2C%20Y.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Nitrate%20depletion%20and%20pH%20changes%20induced%20by%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20grown%20in%20monoxenic%20culture%201996)

[^11]: Johansen, A., Finlay, R. D. & Olsson, P. A. Nitrogen metabolism of external hyphae of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices. New Phytol. 133, 705–-712 (1996). [[Johansen_et+al_NitrogenMetabolismExternalHyphaeArbuscular_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996)

[^12]: Kaldorf, M., Zimmer, W. & Bothe, H. Genetic-evidence for the occurrence of assimilatory nitrate reductase in arbuscular mycorrhizal and other fungi. Mycorrhiza 5, 23–-28 (1994). [[Kaldorf_et+al_GeneticevidenceOccurrenceAssimilatoryNitrateReductase_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kaldorf%2C%20M.%20Zimmer%2C%20W.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Genetic-evidence%20for%20the%20occurrence%20of%20assimilatory%20nitrate%20reductase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20and%20other%20fungi%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kaldorf%2C%20M.%20Zimmer%2C%20W.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Genetic-evidence%20for%20the%20occurrence%20of%20assimilatory%20nitrate%20reductase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20and%20other%20fungi%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kaldorf%2C%20M.%20Zimmer%2C%20W.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Genetic-evidence%20for%20the%20occurrence%20of%20assimilatory%20nitrate%20reductase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20and%20other%20fungi%201994)

[^13]: Breuninger, M., Trujillo, C. G., Serrano, E., Fischer, R. & Requena, N. Different nitrogen sources modulate activity but not expression of glutamine synthetase in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Fungal Genet. Biol. 41, 542–-552 (2004). [[Breuninger_et+al_DifferentNitrogenSourcesModulateActivity_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Trujillo%2C%20C.G.%20Serrano%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20R.%20Different%20nitrogen%20sources%20modulate%20activity%20but%20not%20expression%20of%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Trujillo%2C%20C.G.%20Serrano%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20R.%20Different%20nitrogen%20sources%20modulate%20activity%20but%20not%20expression%20of%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Breuninger%2C%20M.%20Trujillo%2C%20C.G.%20Serrano%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20R.%20Different%20nitrogen%20sources%20modulate%20activity%20but%20not%20expression%20of%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004)

[^14]: Toussaint, J. P., St-Arnaud, M. & Charest, C. Nitrogen transfer and assimilation between the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices Schenck & Smith and Ri T-DNA roots of Daucus carota L. in an in vitro compartmented system. Can. J. Microbiol. 50, 251–-260 (2004). [[Toussaint_et+al_NitrogenTransferAssimilationBetweenArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Toussaint%2C%20J.P.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Charest%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20and%20assimilation%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20Schenck%20%26%20Smith%20and%20Ri%20T-DNA%20roots%20of%20Daucus%20carota%20L.%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20compartmented%20system%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Toussaint%2C%20J.P.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Charest%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20and%20assimilation%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20Schenck%20%26%20Smith%20and%20Ri%20T-DNA%20roots%20of%20Daucus%20carota%20L.%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20compartmented%20system%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Toussaint%2C%20J.P.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Charest%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20and%20assimilation%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20Schenck%20%26%20Smith%20and%20Ri%20T-DNA%20roots%20of%20Daucus%20carota%20L.%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20compartmented%20system%202004)

[^15]: St-Arnaud, M., Hamel, C., Vimard, B., Caron, M. & Fortin, J. A. Enhanced hyphal growth and spore production of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices in an in vitro system in the absence of host roots. Mycol. Res. 100, 328–-332 (1996). [[St-Arnaud_et+al_EnhancedHyphalGrowthSporeProduction_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Vimard%2C%20B.%20Caron%2C%20M.%20Enhanced%20hyphal%20growth%20and%20spore%20production%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20system%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20host%20roots%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Vimard%2C%20B.%20Caron%2C%20M.%20Enhanced%20hyphal%20growth%20and%20spore%20production%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20system%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20host%20roots%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Vimard%2C%20B.%20Caron%2C%20M.%20Enhanced%20hyphal%20growth%20and%20spore%20production%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20in%20an%20in%20vitro%20system%20in%20the%20absence%20of%20host%20roots%201996)

[^16]: Bago, B., Pfeffer, P. E. & Shachar-Hill, Y. Carbon metabolism and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas. Plant Physiol. 124, 949–-957 (2000). [[Bago_et+al_CarbonMetabolismTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000)

[^17]: Lammers, P. J. et al. The glyoxylate cycle in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus: gene expression and carbon flow. Plant Physiol. 127, 1287–-1298 (2001). [[Lammers_GlyoxylateCycleArbuscularMycorrhizalFungus_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lammers%2C%20P.J.%20The%20glyoxylate%20cycle%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%3A%20gene%20expression%20and%20carbon%20flow%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lammers%2C%20P.J.%20The%20glyoxylate%20cycle%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%3A%20gene%20expression%20and%20carbon%20flow%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lammers%2C%20P.J.%20The%20glyoxylate%20cycle%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%3A%20gene%20expression%20and%20carbon%20flow%202001)

[^18]: Bago, B. et al. Translocation and utilization of fungal lipid in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Physiol. 128, 108–-124 (2002). [[Bago_TranslocationUtilizationFungalLipidArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002)

[^19]: Bago, B. et al. Carbon export from arbuscular mycorrhizal roots involves the translocation of carbohydrate as well as lipid. Plant Physiol. 131, 1496–-1507 (2003). [[Bago_CarbonExportFromArbuscularMycorrhizal_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003)

[^20]: Bucking, H. & Shachar-Hill, Y. Phosphate uptake, transport and transfer by the AM fungus Glomus intraradices is stimulated by increased carbohydrate availability. New Phytol. 165, 899–-912 (2005). [[Bucking_PhosphateUptakeTransportTransferAm_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bucking%2C%20H.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Phosphate%20uptake%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20by%20the%20AM%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20stimulated%20by%20increased%20carbohydrate%20availability%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bucking%2C%20H.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Phosphate%20uptake%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20by%20the%20AM%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20stimulated%20by%20increased%20carbohydrate%20availability%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bucking%2C%20H.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Phosphate%20uptake%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20by%20the%20AM%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20stimulated%20by%20increased%20carbohydrate%20availability%202005)

[^21]: Nielsen, J. S., Joner, E. J., Declerck, S., Olsson, S. & Jakobsen, I. Phosphoimaging as a tool for visualization and noninvasive measurement of P transport dynamics in arbuscular mycorrhizas. New Phytol. 154, 809–-819 (2002). [[Nielsen_et+al_PhosphoimagingToolVisualizationNoninvasiveMeasurement_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nielsen%2C%20J.S.%20Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Declerck%2C%20S.%20Olsson%2C%20S.%20Phosphoimaging%20as%20a%20tool%20for%20visualization%20and%20noninvasive%20measurement%20of%20P%20transport%20dynamics%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nielsen%2C%20J.S.%20Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Declerck%2C%20S.%20Olsson%2C%20S.%20Phosphoimaging%20as%20a%20tool%20for%20visualization%20and%20noninvasive%20measurement%20of%20P%20transport%20dynamics%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nielsen%2C%20J.S.%20Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Declerck%2C%20S.%20Olsson%2C%20S.%20Phosphoimaging%20as%20a%20tool%20for%20visualization%20and%20noninvasive%20measurement%20of%20P%20transport%20dynamics%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202002)

[^22]: Pfeffer, P. E., Douds, D. D., Becard, G. & Shachar-Hill, Y. Carbon uptake and the metabolism and transport of lipids in an arbuscular mycorrhiza. Plant Physiol. 120, 587–-598 (1999). [[Pfeffer_et+al_CarbonUptakeMetabolismTransportLipids_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999)

[^23]: Pfeffer, P. E., Douds, D. D., Bucking, H., Schwartz, D. P. & Shachar-Hill, Y. The fungus does not transfer carbon to or between roots in an arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. New Phytol. 163, 617–-627 (2004). [[Pfeffer_et+al_FungusDoesTransferCarbonBetween_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Bucking%2C%20H.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.P.%20The%20fungus%20does%20not%20transfer%20carbon%20to%20or%20between%20roots%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Bucking%2C%20H.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.P.%20The%20fungus%20does%20not%20transfer%20carbon%20to%20or%20between%20roots%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Bucking%2C%20H.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.P.%20The%20fungus%20does%20not%20transfer%20carbon%20to%20or%20between%20roots%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202004)

[^24]: Martin, F., Stewart, G. R., Genetet, I. & Le Tacon, F. Assimilation of 15NH4þ by beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) ectomycorrhizas. New Phytol. 102, 85–-94 (1986). [[Martin_et+al_Assimilation15nh4þBeechfagusSylvatica_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Genetet%2C%20I.%20Le%20Tacon%2C%20F.%20Assimilation%20of%2015NH4%C3%BE%20by%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20ectomycorrhizas%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martin%2C%20F.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Genetet%2C%20I.%20Le%20Tacon%2C%20F.%20Assimilation%20of%2015NH4%C3%BE%20by%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20ectomycorrhizas%201986) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Genetet%2C%20I.%20Le%20Tacon%2C%20F.%20Assimilation%20of%2015NH4%C3%BE%20by%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20ectomycorrhizas%201986)

[^25]: Bago, B., Pfeffer, P. E. & Shachar-Hill, Y. Could the urea cycle be translocating nitrogen in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis? New Phytol. 149, 4–-8 (2001). [[Bago_et+al_CouldUreaCycleTranslocatingNitrogen_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Could%20the%20urea%20cycle%20be%20translocating%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3F%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Could%20the%20urea%20cycle%20be%20translocating%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3F%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Could%20the%20urea%20cycle%20be%20translocating%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3F%202001)

[^26]: Martin, F. 15N-NMR studies of nitrogen assimilation and amino acid biosynthesis in the ectomycorrhizal fungus Cenococcum graniforme. FEBS Lett. 182, 350–-354 (1985). [[Martin_15nnmrStudiesNitrogenAssimilationAmino_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martin%2C%20F.%2015N-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20amino%20acid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martin%2C%20F.%2015N-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20amino%20acid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martin%2C%20F.%2015N-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20amino%20acid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985)

[^27]: Cliquet, J. B. & Stewart, G. R. Ammonia assimilation in Zea-mays L. infected with a vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus fasciculatum. Plant Physiol. 101, 865–-871 (1993). [[Cliquet_AmmoniaAssimilationZeamaysLInfected_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cliquet%2C%20J.B.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Ammonia%20assimilation%20in%20Zea-mays%20L.%20infected%20with%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20fasciculatum%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cliquet%2C%20J.B.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Ammonia%20assimilation%20in%20Zea-mays%20L.%20infected%20with%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20fasciculatum%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cliquet%2C%20J.B.%20Stewart%2C%20G.R.%20Ammonia%20assimilation%20in%20Zea-mays%20L.%20infected%20with%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20fasciculatum%201993)

[^28]: Vallorani, L. et al. Biochemical and molecular characterization of NADP glutamate dehydrogenase from the ectomycorrhizal fungus Tuber borchii. New Phytol. 154, 779–-790 (2002). [[Vallorani_BiochemicalMolecularCharacterizationNadpGlutamate_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vallorani%2C%20L.%20Biochemical%20and%20molecular%20characterization%20of%20NADP%20glutamate%20dehydrogenase%20from%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Tuber%20borchii%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vallorani%2C%20L.%20Biochemical%20and%20molecular%20characterization%20of%20NADP%20glutamate%20dehydrogenase%20from%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Tuber%20borchii%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vallorani%2C%20L.%20Biochemical%20and%20molecular%20characterization%20of%20NADP%20glutamate%20dehydrogenase%20from%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Tuber%20borchii%202002)

[^29]: Hildebrandt, U., Schmelzer, E. & Bothe, H. Expression of nitrate transporter genes in tomato colonized by an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. Physiol. Plant. 115, 125–-136 (2002). [[Hildebrandt_et+al_ExpressionNitrateTransporterGenesTomato_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Expression%20of%20nitrate%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Expression%20of%20nitrate%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Expression%20of%20nitrate%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202002)

[^30]: Winer, J., Jung, C. K. S., Shackel, I. & Williams, P. M. Development and validation of real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for monitoring gene expression in cardiac myocetes in vitro. Anal. Biochem. 270, 41–-49 (1999). [[Winer_et+al_DevelopmentValidationRealtimeQuantitativeReversetranscriptasepolymerase_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Winer%2C%20J.%20Jung%2C%20C.K.S.%20Shackel%2C%20I.%20Williams%2C%20P.M.%20Development%20and%20validation%20of%20real-time%20quantitative%20reverse-transcriptase-polymerase%20chain%20reaction%20for%20monitoring%20gene%20expression%20in%20cardiac%20myocetes%20in%20vitro%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Winer%2C%20J.%20Jung%2C%20C.K.S.%20Shackel%2C%20I.%20Williams%2C%20P.M.%20Development%20and%20validation%20of%20real-time%20quantitative%20reverse-transcriptase-polymerase%20chain%20reaction%20for%20monitoring%20gene%20expression%20in%20cardiac%20myocetes%20in%20vitro%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Winer%2C%20J.%20Jung%2C%20C.K.S.%20Shackel%2C%20I.%20Williams%2C%20P.M.%20Development%20and%20validation%20of%20real-time%20quantitative%20reverse-transcriptase-polymerase%20chain%20reaction%20for%20monitoring%20gene%20expression%20in%20cardiac%20myocetes%20in%20vitro%201999)

