[[BERRY_InfluenceLeafatmosphereNh3exchangeIsotopicComposition_2013]]

# [The influence of leaf-atmosphere NH3(g)exchange on the isotopic composition of nitrogen in plants and the atmosphere](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/pce.12087)

## [[JENNIFER E. JOHNSON; JOSEPH A. BERRY]]

### 2013

## Abstract
The distribution of nitrogen isotopes in the biosphere has the potential to offer insights into the past, present and future of the nitrogen cycle, but it is challenging to unravel the processes controlling patterns of mixing and fractionation. ==We present a mathematical model describing a previously overlooked process: nitrogen isotope fractionation during leaf-atmosphere NH3(g) exchange==. The model predicts that when leaf-atmosphere exchange of NH3(g) occurs in a closed system, the atmospheric reservoir of NH3(g) equilibrates at a concentration equal to the ammonia compensation point and an isotopic composition 8.1‰ lighter than nitrogen in protein. In an open system, when atmospheric concentrations of NH3(g) fall below or rise above the compensation point, protein can be isotopically enriched by net efflux of NH3(g) or depleted by net uptake. Comparison of model output with existing measurements in the literature suggests that this process contributes to variation in the isotopic composition of nitrogen in plants as well as NH3(g) in the atmosphere, and should be considered in future analyses of nitrogen isotope circulation. The matrix-based modelling approach that is introduced may be useful for quantifying isotope dynamics in other complex systems that can be described by first-order kinetics.

## Key concepts
#result/ammonia; #claim/nitrogen_isotope; #result/compensation_point; #result/glutamine; #result/glutamine_synthetase; #method/ammonium; #method/metabolism; #result/dynamics; #result/organic_nitrogen; #result/glycine_decarboxylase; #method/nitrate_reductase; #brassica_napus

## Quote
> It seems likely that this mechanism contributes to, is not wholly responsible for, the shift in d15N seen in free-air carbon enrichment experiments


## Key points
- The isotopic composition of nitrogen in the terrestrial biosphere is striking in two ways: first, the biosphere as a whole is enriched in 15N relative to N2(g) in the atmosphere ([^Hoering_1960_a]); and second, the individual reactive inorganic and organic nitrogen pools within the biosphere are extremely variable
- When the concentration of NH3(g) in the atmosphere is exactly at the leaf’s NH3(g) compensation point, the rate of gaseous influx is equal to the efflux and the rate of soil nitrogen import is equal to the rate of protein synthesis
- The nitrogen assimilation system appears to be unaffected by the gaseous exchange because the isotopic composition of NH3(g) in the atmosphere matches the isotopic compensation point of the leaf, -8.1‰
- When the stomata are open and the atmosphere is at the isotopic compensation point, the isotopic compositions of the gaseous source and sink fluxes are identical, so as the isotopic compositions of the fluxes from the soil source and to the protein sink
- In the model developed here, simulating the suppression of photorespiration by the free-air carbon enrichment (FACE) CO2(g) increase from 350 to 550 ppm leads to a depletion of organic nitrogen that varies from 0–1‰, depending on the leaf temperature and stomatal conductance
- It seems likely that this mechanism contributes to, is not wholly responsible for, the shift in d15N seen in FACE experiments

## Synopsis

### Introduction
The isotopic composition of nitrogen in the terrestrial biosphere is striking in two ways: first, the biosphere as a whole is enriched in 15N relative to N2(g) in the atmosphere ([^Hoering_1960_a]); and second, the individual reactive inorganic and organic nitrogen pools within the biosphere are extremely variable.
Variability within an individual plant has been attributed to fractionations associated with assimilatory, dissimilatory and transamination reactions within nitrogen metabolism, and the subsequent distribution of relatively enriched or depleted metabolites to certain organelles, organs or tissue types ([^Evans_et+al_1996_a]; [^Werner_2002_a]; [^Cernusak_et+al_2009_a]; [^Gauthier_et+al_2012_a])

### Objectives
The goal of this article is to explore whether leaf-atmosphere NH3(g) exchange, a process that currently is overlooked in most treatments of nitrogen cycling, may have an important influence on the distribution of nitrogen isotopes along the soil-plant-atmosphere continuum

### Methods
Model structure<br/><br/>Diverse approaches have been used to model isotope mixing and fractionation (O’Leary 1981; [^Hayes_1983_a]; [^Rooney_1988_a]; [^Berry_1989_a]; [^Comstock_2001_a]; [^Fry_2003_a]; Ogle, Wolpert &<br/><br/>Reynolds 2004; [^Currie_2008_a]).
The authors formulate a system of linear, first-order, ordinary differential equations that represents nitrogen metabolism and NH3(g) exchange at the scale of a single C3 leaf (Table 1, Fig. 3).
The model includes 10 pools (Pi): five inorganic pools [P1: NO3−(aq), aqueous nitrate within leaf cells; P2: NH3(aq), aqueous ammonia within leaf cells; P3:.
The pools are connected by 15 fluxes (Fj), each expressed as having a firstorder dependence on the size of the pool that it originates from, such that Fj = kjPi, where kj is a rate constant.
There are four transboundary fluxes connecting the internal pools to sources and/or sinks.
Nitrogen enters the leaf as nitrate ( NO3−(aq)) imported from the xylem, reduced to nitrite

### Results
Relationship between NH3(g) compensation point and fluxes Across the leaf temperatures considered, the NH3(g) compensation point averages 14 ppb and ranges from less than one ppb NH3(g) to 38 ppb NH3(g) (Fig. 4).
In Scenario 1, when nitrogen is supplied from the soil and the [NH3(g)] in the atmosphere is at the leaf’s NH3(g) compensation point, uptake and efflux of NH3(g) are balanced, that is net NH3(g) exchange is zero.
When the concentration of NH3(g) in the atmosphere is exactly at the leaf’s NH3(g) compensation point, the rate of gaseous influx is equal to the efflux and the rate of soil nitrogen import is equal to the rate of protein synthesis.
When the stomata are open and the atmosphere is at the isotopic compensation point, the isotopic compositions of the gaseous source and sink fluxes are identical, so as the isotopic compositions of the fluxes from the soil source and to the protein sink.
The absolute difference between the isotopic compositions of the two sinks reflects the intervening fractionations

### Conclusion
Definitive identification of the processes controlling d15N is a highly underdetermined problem due to incomplete information about nitrogen sources and fractionations.
The examples span the range of nitrogen source scenarios considered above.
Example 1: Comparisons of the d15N of leaves from a wide variety of species experiencing ambient and doubled CO2(g) in free-air carbon enrichment (FACE) experiments have indicated that leaves are relatively more depleted under doubled relative to ambient CO2(g) ([^Bassirirad_et+al_2003_a]).
In the model developed here, simulating the suppression of photorespiration by the FACE CO2(g) increase from 350 to 550 ppm leads to a depletion of organic nitrogen that varies from 0–1‰, depending on the leaf temperature and stomatal conductance.
Species-specific responses to elevated CO2(g) could further deplete or enrich foliar nitrogen relative to this value.
It seems likely that this mechanism contributes to, is not wholly responsible for, the shift in d15N seen in FACE experiments

## Findings
- The D13C was significantly positively correlated with D15N (D15N = b * D13C + a: b = 0.71, a = -22.7, t = 666.8, d.f. = 685, P < 0.001)

##  Builds on previous research
- With respect to the structure of the model, we consider the effects of (1) the identity of the amino acids exported for protein synthesis and (2) the accumulation of photorespiratory intermediates. ==With respect to the parameterization, we consider the effects of estimates from== [^Tcherkez_2011_a]) of the isotope effects for key reactions where no measurements are available (i.e. glutamate:glyoxalate aminotransferase and glycine decarboxylase)
- While atmospheric and rainfall d15N fell in the range of -1 to -8‰, lichen and Trentepohlia d15N averaged -20‰, that is a net fractionation on the order of -15.5‰. In the model developed ==here, we simulated diffusive uptake of NH3(g) from atmospheric reservoirs ranging from 20 to 80 ppb, the range of concentrations reported by== [^Tozer_et+al_2005_a]</a>)

## Data and code
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher’s web-site: Temperature has a strong effect on D15N, whereas stomatal conductance has a strong effect on D13C
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version


## References
[^Ledgard_1985_a]: Ledgard, Woo & Bergersen (1985) Ledgard et al. (1985) Hermes et al. (1985) Yoneyama et al. (1993)c Norlin et al. (2002) Farquhar et al. (1983)d This papere [[Ledgard_Ledgard_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ledgard%2C%20Woo%20Bergersen%20Ledgard%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ledgard%2C%20Woo%20Bergersen%20Ledgard%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ledgard%2C%20Woo%20Bergersen%20Ledgard%201985)

[^Massad_2008_a]: – – Massad et al. (2008) Farquhar et al. (1980b) [[Massad_Farquhar_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Massad%20Farquhar%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Massad%20Farquhar%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Massad%20Farquhar%202008)

[^aat_1983_a]: aat T = 298.15K bEquivalent to Vo/2 cCalculation based on measured value of 1.0165; see Supporting Information Appendix S1 for details. dFarquhar et al. (1983) derived 1.018; we recalculate with an additional significant digit. eCalculated using Mason & Marrero (1970) and Kays & Crawford (1980). [[aat_T29815kBequivalentVo2_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=aat%20T%20%2029815K%20bEquivalent%20to%20Vo2%20cCalculation%20based%20on%20measured%20value%20of%2010165%20see%20Supporting%20Information%20Appendix%20S1%20for%20details%20dFarquhar%20et%20al%201983%20derived%201018%20we%20recalculate%20with%20an%20additional%20significant%20digit%20eCalculated%20using%20Mason%20%20Marrero%201970%20and%20Kays%20%20Crawford%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=aat%20T%20%2029815K%20bEquivalent%20to%20Vo2%20cCalculation%20based%20on%20measured%20value%20of%2010165%20see%20Supporting%20Information%20Appendix%20S1%20for%20details%20dFarquhar%20et%20al%201983%20derived%201018%20we%20recalculate%20with%20an%20additional%20significant%20digit%20eCalculated%20using%20Mason%20%20Marrero%201970%20and%20Kays%20%20Crawford%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=aat%20T%20%2029815K%20bEquivalent%20to%20Vo2%20cCalculation%20based%20on%20measured%20value%20of%2010165%20see%20Supporting%20Information%20Appendix%20S1%20for%20details%20dFarquhar%20et%20al%201983%20derived%201018%20we%20recalculate%20with%20an%20additional%20significant%20digit%20eCalculated%20using%20Mason%20%20Marrero%201970%20and%20Kays%20%20Crawford%201980)

[^Amundson_et+al_2003_a]: Amundson R., Austin A., Schuur E., Yoo K., Matzek V., Kendall C., Uebersax A., Brenner D. & Baisden W. (2003) Global patterns of the isotopic composition of soil and plant nitrogen. Global Biogeochemical Cycles 17, 1031. doi:10.1029/2002GB001903. [[Amundson_et+al_GlobalPatternsIsotopicCompositionSoil_2003]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1029/2002GB001903)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1029/2002GB001903)

[^Aranibar_et+al_2008_a]: Aranibar J.N., Anderson I.C., Epstein H.E., Feral C.J.W., Swap R.J., Ramontsho J. & Macko S.A. (2008) Nitrogen isotope composition of soils, C3 and C4 plants along land use gradients in southern Africa. Journal of Arid Environments 72, 326–337. [[Aranibar_et+al_NitrogenIsotopeCompositionSoilsC3_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=N.%2C%20Aranibar%20J.%20C.%2C%20Anderson%20I.%20E.%2C%20Epstein%20H.%20W.%2C%20Feral%20C.J.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20soils%2C%20C3%20and%20C4%20plants%20along%20land%20use%20gradients%20in%20southern%20Africa%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N.%2C%20Aranibar%20J.%20C.%2C%20Anderson%20I.%20E.%2C%20Epstein%20H.%20W.%2C%20Feral%20C.J.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20soils%2C%20C3%20and%20C4%20plants%20along%20land%20use%20gradients%20in%20southern%20Africa%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=N.%2C%20Aranibar%20J.%20C.%2C%20Anderson%20I.%20E.%2C%20Epstein%20H.%20W.%2C%20Feral%20C.J.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20soils%2C%20C3%20and%20C4%20plants%20along%20land%20use%20gradients%20in%20southern%20Africa%202008)

[^Austin_1998_a]: Austin A. & Vitousek P.M. (1998) Nutrient dynamics on a precipitation gradient in Hawai’i. Oecologia 113, 519–529. [[Austin_NutrientDynamicsPrecipitationGradientHawai_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Austin%20M%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nutrient%20dynamics%20on%20a%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawai%E2%80%99i%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Austin%20M%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nutrient%20dynamics%20on%20a%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawai%E2%80%99i%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Austin%20M%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nutrient%20dynamics%20on%20a%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawai%E2%80%99i%201998)

[^Bandura_2006_a]: Bandura A. & Lvov S. (2006) The ionization constant of water over wide ranges of temperature and density. Journal of Physical and Chemical Reference Data 35, 15–30. [[Bandura_IonizationConstantWaterOverWide_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Bandura%20S%2C%20Lvov%20The%20ionization%20constant%20of%20water%20over%20wide%20ranges%20of%20temperature%20and%20density%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Bandura%20S%2C%20Lvov%20The%20ionization%20constant%20of%20water%20over%20wide%20ranges%20of%20temperature%20and%20density%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Bandura%20S%2C%20Lvov%20The%20ionization%20constant%20of%20water%20over%20wide%20ranges%20of%20temperature%20and%20density%202006)

[^Banerjee_2005_a]: Banerjee S. (2005) Dynamics for Engineers. John Wiley & Sons Inc., Hoboken, NJ. [[Banerjee_DynamicsEngineers_2005]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Banerjee%2C%20S.%20Dynamics%20for%20Engineers%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Banerjee%2C%20S.%20Dynamics%20for%20Engineers%202005) 

[^Bassirirad_et+al_2003_a]: BassiriRad H., Constable J., Lussenhop J., et al. (2003) Widespread foliage d15N depletion under elevated CO2: inferences for the nitrogen cycle. Global Change Biology 9, 1582–1590. [[Bassirirad_et+al_WidespreadFoliageD15nDepletionUnder_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=H.%2C%20BassiriRad%20J.%2C%20Constable%20J%2C%20Lussenhop%20Widespread%20foliage%20d15N%20depletion%20under%20elevated%20CO2%3A%20inferences%20for%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=H.%2C%20BassiriRad%20J.%2C%20Constable%20J%2C%20Lussenhop%20Widespread%20foliage%20d15N%20depletion%20under%20elevated%20CO2%3A%20inferences%20for%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=H.%2C%20BassiriRad%20J.%2C%20Constable%20J%2C%20Lussenhop%20Widespread%20foliage%20d15N%20depletion%20under%20elevated%20CO2%3A%20inferences%20for%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202003)

[^Beer_et+al_2008_a]: Beer R., Shephard M., Kulawik S., et al. (2008) First satellite observations of lower tropospheric ammonia and methanol. Geophysical Research Letters 35, L09801. [[Beer_et+al_FirstSatelliteObservationsLowerTropospheric_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=R.%2C%20Beer%20M.%2C%20Shephard%20S%2C%20Kulawik%20First%20satellite%20observations%20of%20lower%20tropospheric%20ammonia%20and%20methanol%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Beer%20M.%2C%20Shephard%20S%2C%20Kulawik%20First%20satellite%20observations%20of%20lower%20tropospheric%20ammonia%20and%20methanol%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=R.%2C%20Beer%20M.%2C%20Shephard%20S%2C%20Kulawik%20First%20satellite%20observations%20of%20lower%20tropospheric%20ammonia%20and%20methanol%202008)

[^Bernard_2009_a]: Bernard S.M. & Habash D.Z. (2009) The importance of cytosolic glutamine synthetase in nitrogen assimilation and recycling. New Phytologist 182, 608– 620. [[Bernard_ImportanceCytosolicGlutamineSynthetaseNitrogen_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M.%2C%20Bernard%20S.%20Z%2C%20Habash%20D.%20The%20importance%20of%20cytosolic%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20recycling%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M.%2C%20Bernard%20S.%20Z%2C%20Habash%20D.%20The%20importance%20of%20cytosolic%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20recycling%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M.%2C%20Bernard%20S.%20Z%2C%20Habash%20D.%20The%20importance%20of%20cytosolic%20glutamine%20synthetase%20in%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20recycling%202009)

[^Berry_1989_a]: Berry J. (1989) Studies of mechanisms affecting the fractionation of carbon isotopes in photosynthesis. In Stable Isotopes in Ecological Research (eds P. Rundel, J. Ehleringer & K. Nagy), pp. 82–94. Springer-Verlag, New York, NY. [[Berry_StudiesMechanismsAffectingFractionationCarbon_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Berry%2C%20J.%20Studies%20of%20mechanisms%20affecting%20the%20fractionation%20of%20carbon%20isotopes%20in%20photosynthesis%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Berry%2C%20J.%20Studies%20of%20mechanisms%20affecting%20the%20fractionation%20of%20carbon%20isotopes%20in%20photosynthesis%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Berry%2C%20J.%20Studies%20of%20mechanisms%20affecting%20the%20fractionation%20of%20carbon%20isotopes%20in%20photosynthesis%201989)

[^Bigeleisen_1958_a]: Bigeleisen J. & Wolfsberg M. (1958) Theoretical and experimental aspects of isotope effects in chemical kinetics. Advances in Chemical Physics 1, 15–76. [[Bigeleisen_TheoreticalExperimentalAspectsIsotopeEffects_1958]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=J.%2C%20Bigeleisen%20M%2C%20Wolfsberg%20Theoretical%20and%20experimental%20aspects%20of%20isotope%20effects%20in%20chemical%20kinetics%201958) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=J.%2C%20Bigeleisen%20M%2C%20Wolfsberg%20Theoretical%20and%20experimental%20aspects%20of%20isotope%20effects%20in%20chemical%20kinetics%201958) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=J.%2C%20Bigeleisen%20M%2C%20Wolfsberg%20Theoretical%20and%20experimental%20aspects%20of%20isotope%20effects%20in%20chemical%20kinetics%201958)

[^Brannan_2010_a]: Brannan J.R. & Boyce W.E. (2010) Differential Equations: An Introduction to Modern Methods and Applications 2nd edn. John Wiley & Sons Inc, Hoboken, NJ. [[Brannan_DifferentialEquationsIntroductionModernMethods_2010]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Brannan%20J.%20E%2C%20Boyce%20W.%20Differential%20Equations%3A%20An%20Introduction%20to%20Modern%20Methods%20and%20Applications%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Brannan%20J.%20E%2C%20Boyce%20W.%20Differential%20Equations%3A%20An%20Introduction%20to%20Modern%20Methods%20and%20Applications%202010) 

[^Buchmann_et+al_1997_a]: Buchmann N., Guehl J., Barigah T. & Ehleringer J. (1997) Interseasonal comparison of CO2 concentrations, isotopic composition, and carbon dynamics in an Amazonian rainforest (French Guiana). Oecologia 110, 120–131. [[Buchmann_et+al_InterseasonalComparisonCo2ConcentrationsIsotopic_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=N.%2C%20Buchmann%20J.%2C%20Guehl%20T.%2C%20Barigah%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Interseasonal%20comparison%20of%20CO2%20concentrations%2C%20isotopic%20composition%2C%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20in%20an%20Amazonian%20rainforest%20%28French%20Guiana%29%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N.%2C%20Buchmann%20J.%2C%20Guehl%20T.%2C%20Barigah%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Interseasonal%20comparison%20of%20CO2%20concentrations%2C%20isotopic%20composition%2C%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20in%20an%20Amazonian%20rainforest%20%28French%20Guiana%29%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=N.%2C%20Buchmann%20J.%2C%20Guehl%20T.%2C%20Barigah%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Interseasonal%20comparison%20of%20CO2%20concentrations%2C%20isotopic%20composition%2C%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20in%20an%20Amazonian%20rainforest%20%28French%20Guiana%29%201997)

[^Cernusak_et+al_2009_a]: Cernusak L.A., Winter K. & Turner B.L. (2009) Plant d15N correlates with the transpiration efficiency of nitrogen acquisition in tropical trees. Plant Physiology 151, 1667–1676. [[Cernusak_et+al_PlantD15nCorrelatesWithTranspiration_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Cernusak%20L.%20K.%2C%20Winter%20L%2C%20Turner%20B.%20Plant%20d15N%20correlates%20with%20the%20transpiration%20efficiency%20of%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20in%20tropical%20trees%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Cernusak%20L.%20K.%2C%20Winter%20L%2C%20Turner%20B.%20Plant%20d15N%20correlates%20with%20the%20transpiration%20efficiency%20of%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20in%20tropical%20trees%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Cernusak%20L.%20K.%2C%20Winter%20L%2C%20Turner%20B.%20Plant%20d15N%20correlates%20with%20the%20transpiration%20efficiency%20of%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20in%20tropical%20trees%202009)

[^Clarisse_et+al_2009_a]: Clarisse L., Clerbaux C., Dentener F., Hurtmans D. & Coheur P.F. (2009) Global ammonia distribution derived from infrared satellite observations. Nature Geoscience 2, 479–483. [[Clarisse_et+al_GlobalAmmoniaDistributionDerivedFrom_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=L.%2C%20Clarisse%20C.%2C%20Clerbaux%20F.%2C%20Dentener%20D.%2C%20Hurtmans%20Global%20ammonia%20distribution%20derived%20from%20infrared%20satellite%20observations%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=L.%2C%20Clarisse%20C.%2C%20Clerbaux%20F.%2C%20Dentener%20D.%2C%20Hurtmans%20Global%20ammonia%20distribution%20derived%20from%20infrared%20satellite%20observations%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=L.%2C%20Clarisse%20C.%2C%20Clerbaux%20F.%2C%20Dentener%20D.%2C%20Hurtmans%20Global%20ammonia%20distribution%20derived%20from%20infrared%20satellite%20observations%202009)

[^Clegg_1989_a]: Clegg S. & Brimblecombe P. (1989) Solubility of ammonia in pure aqueous and multicomponent solutions. The Journal of Physical Chemistry 93, 7237–7248. [[Clegg_SolubilityAmmoniaPureAqueousMulticomponent_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=S.%2C%20Clegg%20P%2C%20Brimblecombe%20Solubility%20of%20ammonia%20in%20pure%20aqueous%20and%20multicomponent%20solutions%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=S.%2C%20Clegg%20P%2C%20Brimblecombe%20Solubility%20of%20ammonia%20in%20pure%20aqueous%20and%20multicomponent%20solutions%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=S.%2C%20Clegg%20P%2C%20Brimblecombe%20Solubility%20of%20ammonia%20in%20pure%20aqueous%20and%20multicomponent%20solutions%201989)

[^Comstock_2001_a]: Comstock J. (2001) Steady-state isotopic fractionation in branched pathways using plant uptake of NO3- as an example. Planta 214, 220–234. [[Comstock_SteadystateIsotopicFractionationBranchedPathways_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Comstock%2C%20J.%20Steady-state%20isotopic%20fractionation%20in%20branched%20pathways%20using%20plant%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20as%20an%20example%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Comstock%2C%20J.%20Steady-state%20isotopic%20fractionation%20in%20branched%20pathways%20using%20plant%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20as%20an%20example%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Comstock%2C%20J.%20Steady-state%20isotopic%20fractionation%20in%20branched%20pathways%20using%20plant%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20as%20an%20example%202001)

[^Craine_et+al_2009_a]: Craine J.M., Elmore A.J., Aidar M.P.M., et al. (2009) Global patterns of foliar nitrogen isotopes and their relationships with climate, mycorrhizal fungi, foliar nutrient concentrations, and nitrogen availability. New Phytologist 183, 980–992. [[Craine_et+al_GlobalPatternsFoliarNitrogenIsotopes_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M.%2C%20Craine%20J.%20J.%2C%20Elmore%20A.%20M%2C%20Aidar%20M.P.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20foliar%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20and%20their%20relationships%20with%20climate%2C%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20foliar%20nutrient%20concentrations%2C%20and%20nitrogen%20availability%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M.%2C%20Craine%20J.%20J.%2C%20Elmore%20A.%20M%2C%20Aidar%20M.P.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20foliar%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20and%20their%20relationships%20with%20climate%2C%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20foliar%20nutrient%20concentrations%2C%20and%20nitrogen%20availability%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M.%2C%20Craine%20J.%20J.%2C%20Elmore%20A.%20M%2C%20Aidar%20M.P.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20foliar%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20and%20their%20relationships%20with%20climate%2C%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%2C%20foliar%20nutrient%20concentrations%2C%20and%20nitrogen%20availability%202009)

[^Crc_2012_a]: CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (2012) Available at: http://www.hbcpnetbase.com/ (accessed 1 October 2012). [[Crc__2012]] [OA](http://www.hbcpnetbase.com/)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=CRC%20Handbook%20of%20Chemistry%20and%20Physics%202012%20Available%20at%20httpwwwhbcpnetbasecom%20accessed%201%20October%202012)

[^Currie_2008_a]: Currie W. (2008) Modeling the dynamics of stable isotope ratios for ecosystem biogeochemistry. In Stable Isotopes in Ecology and Environmental Science (eds R. Michener & K. Lajtha) 2nd edn, pp. 450–479. Blackwell Publishing, Oxford. [[Currie_ModelingDynamicsStableIsotopeRatios_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Currie%2C%20W.%20Modeling%20the%20dynamics%20of%20stable%20isotope%20ratios%20for%20ecosystem%20biogeochemistry%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Currie%2C%20W.%20Modeling%20the%20dynamics%20of%20stable%20isotope%20ratios%20for%20ecosystem%20biogeochemistry%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Currie%2C%20W.%20Modeling%20the%20dynamics%20of%20stable%20isotope%20ratios%20for%20ecosystem%20biogeochemistry%202008)

[^Dentener_1994_a]: Dentener F. & Crutzen P. (1994) A 3-dimensional model of the global ammonia cycle. Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry 19, 331–369. [[Dentener_3dimensionalModelGlobalAmmoniaCycle_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=F.%2C%20Dentener%20P%2C%20Crutzen%20A%203-dimensional%20model%20of%20the%20global%20ammonia%20cycle%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F.%2C%20Dentener%20P%2C%20Crutzen%20A%203-dimensional%20model%20of%20the%20global%20ammonia%20cycle%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=F.%2C%20Dentener%20P%2C%20Crutzen%20A%203-dimensional%20model%20of%20the%20global%20ammonia%20cycle%201994)

[^Ehleringer_et+al_2010_a]: Ehleringer J., Martinelli L.A., Ometto J., Domingues T.F., Flanagan L.B., Berry J.A., Cook C. & Nardoto G.B. (2010) LBA-ECO CD-02 Carbon, Nitrogen, Oxygen Stable Isotopes in Organic Material, Brazil. Data set. Available on-line http://daac.ornl.gov from Oak Ridge National Lab-oratory Distributed Active Archive Center, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, U.S.A.doi:10.3334/ ORNLDAAC/983. [[Ehleringer_et+al_LbaecoCd02CarbonNitrogenOxygen_2010]] [OA](http://daac.ornl.gov)  

[^Elliott_et+al_2007_a]: Elliott E.M., Kendall C., Wankel S.D., Burns D.A., Boyer E.W., Harlin K., Bain D.J. & Butler T.J. (2007) Nitrogen isotopes as indicators of NOx source contributions to atmospheric nitrate deposition across the midwestern and northeastern United States. Environmental Science & Technology 41, 7661–7667. [[Elliott_et+al_NitrogenIsotopesIndicatorsNoxSource_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M.%2C%20Elliott%20E.%20C.%2C%20Kendall%20D.%2C%20Wankel%20S.%20A.%2C%20Burns%20D.%20Nitrogen%20isotopes%20as%20indicators%20of%20NOx%20source%20contributions%20to%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20deposition%20across%20the%20midwestern%20and%20northeastern%20United%20States%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M.%2C%20Elliott%20E.%20C.%2C%20Kendall%20D.%2C%20Wankel%20S.%20A.%2C%20Burns%20D.%20Nitrogen%20isotopes%20as%20indicators%20of%20NOx%20source%20contributions%20to%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20deposition%20across%20the%20midwestern%20and%20northeastern%20United%20States%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M.%2C%20Elliott%20E.%20C.%2C%20Kendall%20D.%2C%20Wankel%20S.%20A.%2C%20Burns%20D.%20Nitrogen%20isotopes%20as%20indicators%20of%20NOx%20source%20contributions%20to%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20deposition%20across%20the%20midwestern%20and%20northeastern%20United%20States%202007)

[^Evans_2001_a]: Evans R. (2001) Physiological mechanisms influencing plant nitrogen isotope composition. Trends in Plant Science 6, 121–126. [[Evans_PhysiologicalMechanismsInfluencingPlantNitrogen_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Evans%2C%20R.%20Physiological%20mechanisms%20influencing%20plant%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Evans%2C%20R.%20Physiological%20mechanisms%20influencing%20plant%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Evans%2C%20R.%20Physiological%20mechanisms%20influencing%20plant%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%202001)

[^Evans_et+al_1996_a]: Evans R., Bloom A., Sukrapanna S. & Ehleringer J. (1996) Nitrogen isotope composition of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. T-5) grown under ammonium or nitrate nutrition. Plant, Cell & Environment 19, 1317– 1323. Farquhar G. (1983) On the nature of carbon isotope discrimination in C4 species. Australian Journal of Plant Physiology 10, 205–226. [[Evans_et+al_NitrogenIsotopeCompositionTomatolycopersicon_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=R.%2C%20Evans%20A.%2C%20Bloom%20S.%2C%20Sukrapanna%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20Mill.%20cv.%20T-5%29%20grown%20under%20ammonium%20or%20nitrate%20nutrition%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Evans%20A.%2C%20Bloom%20S.%2C%20Sukrapanna%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20Mill.%20cv.%20T-5%29%20grown%20under%20ammonium%20or%20nitrate%20nutrition%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=R.%2C%20Evans%20A.%2C%20Bloom%20S.%2C%20Sukrapanna%20J%2C%20Ehleringer%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%20Mill.%20cv.%20T-5%29%20grown%20under%20ammonium%20or%20nitrate%20nutrition%201996)

[^Farquhar_1984_a]: Farquhar G. & Richards R. (1984) Isotopic composition of plant carbon correlates with water-use efficiency of wheat genotypes. Australian Journal of Plant Physiology 11, 539–552. [[Farquhar_IsotopicCompositionPlantCarbonCorrelates_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R%2C%20Richards%20Isotopic%20composition%20of%20plant%20carbon%20correlates%20with%20water-use%20efficiency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R%2C%20Richards%20Isotopic%20composition%20of%20plant%20carbon%20correlates%20with%20water-use%20efficiency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R%2C%20Richards%20Isotopic%20composition%20of%20plant%20carbon%20correlates%20with%20water-use%20efficiency%20of%20wheat%20genotypes%201984)

[^Farquhar_et+al_1980_a]: Farquhar G., Firth P., Wetselaar R. & Weir B. (1980a) On the gaseous exchange of ammonia between leaves and the environment – determination of the ammonia compensation point. Plant Physiology 66, 710–714. [[Farquhar_et+al_GaseousExchangeAmmoniaBetweenLeaves_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20P.%2C%20Firth%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20On%20the%20gaseous%20exchange%20of%20ammonia%20between%20leaves%20and%20the%20environment%20%E2%80%93%20determination%20of%20the%20ammonia%20compensation%20point%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20P.%2C%20Firth%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20On%20the%20gaseous%20exchange%20of%20ammonia%20between%20leaves%20and%20the%20environment%20%E2%80%93%20determination%20of%20the%20ammonia%20compensation%20point%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20P.%2C%20Firth%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20On%20the%20gaseous%20exchange%20of%20ammonia%20between%20leaves%20and%20the%20environment%20%E2%80%93%20determination%20of%20the%20ammonia%20compensation%20point%201980)

[^Farquhar_et+al_1980_a]: Farquhar G., von Caemmerer S. & Berry J. (1980b) A biochemical model of photosynthetic CO2 assimilation in leaves of C3 species. Planta 149, 78–90. [[Farquhar_et+al_BiochemicalModelPhotosyntheticCo2Assimilation_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20von%20Caemmerer%20S.%20J%2C%20Berry%20A%20biochemical%20model%20of%20photosynthetic%20CO2%20assimilation%20in%20leaves%20of%20C3%20species%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20von%20Caemmerer%20S.%20J%2C%20Berry%20A%20biochemical%20model%20of%20photosynthetic%20CO2%20assimilation%20in%20leaves%20of%20C3%20species%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20von%20Caemmerer%20S.%20J%2C%20Berry%20A%20biochemical%20model%20of%20photosynthetic%20CO2%20assimilation%20in%20leaves%20of%20C3%20species%201980)

[^Farquhar_et+al_1982_a]: Farquhar G., O’Leary M. & Berry J.A. (1982) On the relationship between carbon isotope discrimination and the intercellular carbon dioxide concentration in leaves. Australian Journal of Plant Physiology 9, 121–137. [[Farquhar_et+al_RelationshipBetweenCarbonIsotopeDiscrimination_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20M.%2C%20O.%E2%80%99Leary%20A%2C%20Berry%20J.%20On%20the%20relationship%20between%20carbon%20isotope%20discrimination%20and%20the%20intercellular%20carbon%20dioxide%20concentration%20in%20leaves%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20M.%2C%20O.%E2%80%99Leary%20A%2C%20Berry%20J.%20On%20the%20relationship%20between%20carbon%20isotope%20discrimination%20and%20the%20intercellular%20carbon%20dioxide%20concentration%20in%20leaves%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20M.%2C%20O.%E2%80%99Leary%20A%2C%20Berry%20J.%20On%20the%20relationship%20between%20carbon%20isotope%20discrimination%20and%20the%20intercellular%20carbon%20dioxide%20concentration%20in%20leaves%201982)

[^Farquhar_et+al_1983_a]: Farquhar G., Wetselaar R. & Weir B. (1983) Gaseous nitrogen losses from plants. In Gaseous Losses of Nitrogen from Plant-Soil Systems (eds J. Freney & J. Simpson), pp. 159–179. Martinus Nijhoff/Dr. W. Junk, The Hague. Farquhar G., Ehleringer J. & Hubick K. (1989) Carbon isotope discrimination and photosynthesis. Annual Review of Plant Physiology and Plant Molecular Biology 40, 503–537. [[Farquhar_et+al_GaseousNitrogenLossesFromPlants_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20Gaseous%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20plants.%20In%20Gaseous%20Losses%20of%20Nitrogen%20from%20Plant-Soil%20Systems%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20Gaseous%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20plants.%20In%20Gaseous%20Losses%20of%20Nitrogen%20from%20Plant-Soil%20Systems%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=G.%2C%20Farquhar%20R.%2C%20Wetselaar%20B%2C%20Weir%20Gaseous%20nitrogen%20losses%20from%20plants.%20In%20Gaseous%20Losses%20of%20Nitrogen%20from%20Plant-Soil%20Systems%201983)

[^Fogel_1993_a]: Fogel M. & Cifuentes L. (1993) Isotope fractionation during primary production. In Organic Geochemistry (eds H. Engel & S. Macko), pp. 73–97. Plenum Press, New York. Fogel M., Wooller M., Cheeseman J., Smallwood B., Roberts Q., Romero I. & Jacobsen Meyers M. (2008) Unusually negative nitrogen isotopic compositions of mangroves and lichens in an oligotrophic, microbially-influenced ecosystem. Biogeosciences Discuss 5, 937–969. [[Fogel_IsotopeFractionationDuringPrimaryProduction_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M.%2C%20Fogel%20L%2C%20Cifuentes%20Isotope%20fractionation%20during%20primary%20production%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M.%2C%20Fogel%20L%2C%20Cifuentes%20Isotope%20fractionation%20during%20primary%20production%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M.%2C%20Fogel%20L%2C%20Cifuentes%20Isotope%20fractionation%20during%20primary%20production%201993)

[^Freyer_1991_a]: Freyer H. (1991) Seasonal variation of 15N/14N ratios in atmospheric nitrate species. Tellus B 43B, 30–44. [[Freyer_SeasonalVariation15n14nRatiosAtmospheric_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Freyer%2C%20H.%20Seasonal%20variation%20of%2015N/14N%20ratios%20in%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20species%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Freyer%2C%20H.%20Seasonal%20variation%20of%2015N/14N%20ratios%20in%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20species%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Freyer%2C%20H.%20Seasonal%20variation%20of%2015N/14N%20ratios%20in%20atmospheric%20nitrate%20species%201991)

[^Fry_2003_a]: Fry B. (2003) Steady state models of stable isotopic distributions. Isotopes in Environmental and Health Studies 39, 219–232. [[Fry_SteadyStateModelsStableIsotopic_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fry%2C%20B.%20Steady%20state%20models%20of%20stable%20isotopic%20distributions%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fry%2C%20B.%20Steady%20state%20models%20of%20stable%20isotopic%20distributions%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fry%2C%20B.%20Steady%20state%20models%20of%20stable%20isotopic%20distributions%202003)

[^Galloway_et+al_2008_a]: Galloway J.N., Townsend A.R., Erisman J.W., Bekunda M., Cai Z., Freney J.R., Martinelli L.A., Seitzinger S.P. & Sutton M.A. (2008) Transformation of the nitrogen cycle: recent trends, questions, and potential solutions. Science 320, 889–892. [[Galloway_et+al_TransformationNitrogenCycleRecentTrends_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=N.%2C%20Galloway%20J.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20W.%2C%20Erisman%20J.%20M.%2C%20Bekunda%20Transformation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%3A%20recent%20trends%2C%20questions%2C%20and%20potential%20solutions%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N.%2C%20Galloway%20J.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20W.%2C%20Erisman%20J.%20M.%2C%20Bekunda%20Transformation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%3A%20recent%20trends%2C%20questions%2C%20and%20potential%20solutions%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=N.%2C%20Galloway%20J.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20W.%2C%20Erisman%20J.%20M.%2C%20Bekunda%20Transformation%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%3A%20recent%20trends%2C%20questions%2C%20and%20potential%20solutions%202008)

[^Garten_1993_a]: Garten C. (1993) Variation in foliar 15N abundance and the availability of soil nitrogen on Walker Branch watershed. Ecology 74, 2098–2113. [[Garten_VariationFoliar15nAbundanceAvailability_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Garten%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20foliar%2015N%20abundance%20and%20the%20availability%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20on%20Walker%20Branch%20watershed%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Garten%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20foliar%2015N%20abundance%20and%20the%20availability%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20on%20Walker%20Branch%20watershed%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Garten%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20foliar%2015N%20abundance%20and%20the%20availability%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20on%20Walker%20Branch%20watershed%201993)

[^Garten_1992_a]: Garten C.T. (1992) Nitrogen isotope composition of ammonium and nitrate in bulk precipitation and forest throughfall. International Journal of Environmental Analytical Chemistry 47, 33–45. [[Garten_NitrogenIsotopeCompositionAmmoniumNitrate_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=T%2C%20Garten%20C.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20ammonium%20and%20nitrate%20in%20bulk%20precipitation%20and%20forest%20throughfall%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=T%2C%20Garten%20C.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20ammonium%20and%20nitrate%20in%20bulk%20precipitation%20and%20forest%20throughfall%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=T%2C%20Garten%20C.%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20ammonium%20and%20nitrate%20in%20bulk%20precipitation%20and%20forest%20throughfall%201992)

[^Gauthier_et+al_2012_a]: Gauthier P., Lamothe M., Mahé A., Molero G., Nogués S., Hodges M. & Tcherkez G. (2012) Metabolic origin of d15N values in nitrogenous compounds from Brassica napus L. leaves. Plant, Cell & Environment 36, 128–137. [[Gauthier_et+al_MetabolicOriginD15nValuesNitrogenous_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=P.%2C%20Gauthier%20M.%2C%20Lamothe%20A.%2C%20Mah%C3%A9%20G.%2C%20Molero%20Metabolic%20origin%20of%20d15N%20values%20in%20nitrogenous%20compounds%20from%20Brassica%20napus%20L.%20leaves%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=P.%2C%20Gauthier%20M.%2C%20Lamothe%20A.%2C%20Mah%C3%A9%20G.%2C%20Molero%20Metabolic%20origin%20of%20d15N%20values%20in%20nitrogenous%20compounds%20from%20Brassica%20napus%20L.%20leaves%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=P.%2C%20Gauthier%20M.%2C%20Lamothe%20A.%2C%20Mah%C3%A9%20G.%2C%20Molero%20Metabolic%20origin%20of%20d15N%20values%20in%20nitrogenous%20compounds%20from%20Brassica%20napus%20L.%20leaves%202012)

[^Handley_1992_a]: Handley L.L. & Raven J.A. (1992) The use of natural abundance of nitrogen isotopes in plant physiology and ecology. Plant, Cell & Environment 15, 965–985. [[Handley_NaturalAbundanceNitrogenIsotopesPlant_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20A%2C%20Raven%20J.%20The%20use%20of%20natural%20abundance%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20in%20plant%20physiology%20and%20ecology%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20A%2C%20Raven%20J.%20The%20use%20of%20natural%20abundance%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20in%20plant%20physiology%20and%20ecology%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20A%2C%20Raven%20J.%20The%20use%20of%20natural%20abundance%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20in%20plant%20physiology%20and%20ecology%201992)

[^Handley_et+al_1999_a]: Handley L.L., Austin A.T., Robinson D., Scrimgeour C.M., Raven J.A., Heaton T.H.E., Schmidt S. & Stewart G.R. (1999) The 15N natural abundance (d15N) of ecosystem samples reflects measures of water availability. Australian Journal of Plant Physiology 26, 185–199. [[Handley_et+al_15nNaturalAbundanced15nEcosystem_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20T.%2C%20Austin%20A.%20D.%2C%20Robinson%20M.%2C%20Scrimgeour%20C.%20The%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20%28d15N%29%20of%20ecosystem%20samples%20reflects%20measures%20of%20water%20availability%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20T.%2C%20Austin%20A.%20D.%2C%20Robinson%20M.%2C%20Scrimgeour%20C.%20The%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20%28d15N%29%20of%20ecosystem%20samples%20reflects%20measures%20of%20water%20availability%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=L.%2C%20Handley%20L.%20T.%2C%20Austin%20A.%20D.%2C%20Robinson%20M.%2C%20Scrimgeour%20C.%20The%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20%28d15N%29%20of%20ecosystem%20samples%20reflects%20measures%20of%20water%20availability%201999)

[^Harper_1998_a]: Harper L. & Sharpe R. (1998) Atmospheric ammonia: issues on transport and nitrogen isotope measurement. Atmospheric Environment 32, 273–277. [[Harper_AtmosphericAmmoniaIssuesTransportNitrogen_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=L.%2C%20Harper%20R%2C%20Sharpe%20Atmospheric%20ammonia%3A%20issues%20on%20transport%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20measurement%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=L.%2C%20Harper%20R%2C%20Sharpe%20Atmospheric%20ammonia%3A%20issues%20on%20transport%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20measurement%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=L.%2C%20Harper%20R%2C%20Sharpe%20Atmospheric%20ammonia%3A%20issues%20on%20transport%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20measurement%201998)

[^Hayes_1983_a]: Hayes J. (1983) Practice and principles of isotopic measurements in organic geochemistry. In Organic Geochemistry of Contemporaneous and Ancient Sediments (ed. W. Meinschein). pp. 1–31. Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, Great Lakes Section, Bloomington, Indiana. Hayes J.M. (2001) Fractionation of carbon and hydrogen isotopes in biosynthetic processes. Reviews in Mineralogy and Geochemistry 43, 225–278. [[Hayes_PracticePrinciplesIsotopicMeasurementsOrganic_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hayes%2C%20J.%20Practice%20and%20principles%20of%20isotopic%20measurements%20in%20organic%20geochemistry.%20In%20Organic%20Geochemistry%20of%20Contemporaneous%20and%20Ancient%20Sediments%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hayes%2C%20J.%20Practice%20and%20principles%20of%20isotopic%20measurements%20in%20organic%20geochemistry.%20In%20Organic%20Geochemistry%20of%20Contemporaneous%20and%20Ancient%20Sediments%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hayes%2C%20J.%20Practice%20and%20principles%20of%20isotopic%20measurements%20in%20organic%20geochemistry.%20In%20Organic%20Geochemistry%20of%20Contemporaneous%20and%20Ancient%20Sediments%201983)

[^Heaton_et+al_1997_a]: Heaton T., Spiro B., Madeline S. & Robertson C. (1997) Potential canopy influences on the isotopic composition of nitrogen and sulphur in atmospheric deposition. Oecologia 109, 600–607. [[Heaton_et+al_PotentialCanopyInfluencesIsotopicComposition_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=T.%2C%20Heaton%20B.%2C%20Spiro%20S.%2C%20Madeline%20C%2C%20Robertson%20Potential%20canopy%20influences%20on%20the%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20sulphur%20in%20atmospheric%20deposition%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=T.%2C%20Heaton%20B.%2C%20Spiro%20S.%2C%20Madeline%20C%2C%20Robertson%20Potential%20canopy%20influences%20on%20the%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20sulphur%20in%20atmospheric%20deposition%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=T.%2C%20Heaton%20B.%2C%20Spiro%20S.%2C%20Madeline%20C%2C%20Robertson%20Potential%20canopy%20influences%20on%20the%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20sulphur%20in%20atmospheric%20deposition%201997)

[^Herman_1989_a]: Herman D. & Rundel P. (1989) Nitrogen isotope fractionation in burned and unburned chaparral soils. Soil Science Society of America Journal 53, 1229– 1236. Hermes J., Weiss P. & Cleland W. (1985) Use of nitrogen-15 and deuterium isotope effects to determine the chemical mechanism of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase. Biochemistry 24, 2959–2967. [[Herman_NitrogenIsotopeFractionationBurnedUnburned_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=D.%2C%20Herman%20P%2C%20Rundel%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20burned%20and%20unburned%20chaparral%20soils.%20Soil%20Science%20Society%20of%20America%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D.%2C%20Herman%20P%2C%20Rundel%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20burned%20and%20unburned%20chaparral%20soils.%20Soil%20Science%20Society%20of%20America%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=D.%2C%20Herman%20P%2C%20Rundel%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20burned%20and%20unburned%20chaparral%20soils.%20Soil%20Science%20Society%20of%20America%201989)

[^Hobbie_et+al_1999_a]: Hobbie E., Macko S. & Shugart H. (1999a) Insights into nitrogen and carbon dynamics of ectomycorrhizal and saprotrophic fungi from isotopic evidence. Oecologia 118, 353–360. [[Hobbie_et+al_InsightsIntoNitrogenCarbonDynamics_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Hobbie%20S.%2C%20Macko%20H%2C%20Shugart%20Insights%20into%20nitrogen%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20and%20saprotrophic%20fungi%20from%20isotopic%20evidence%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Hobbie%20S.%2C%20Macko%20H%2C%20Shugart%20Insights%20into%20nitrogen%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20and%20saprotrophic%20fungi%20from%20isotopic%20evidence%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Hobbie%20S.%2C%20Macko%20H%2C%20Shugart%20Insights%20into%20nitrogen%20and%20carbon%20dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20and%20saprotrophic%20fungi%20from%20isotopic%20evidence%201999)

[^Hobbie_et+al_1999_a]: Hobbie E.A., Macko S.A. & Shugart H.H. (1999b) Interpretation of nitrogen isotope signatures using the NIFTE model. Oecologia 120, 405–415. [[Hobbie_et+al_InterpretationNitrogenIsotopeSignaturesUsing_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Hobbie%20E.%20A.%2C%20Macko%20S.%20H%2C%20Shugart%20H.%20Interpretation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotope%20signatures%20using%20the%20NIFTE%20model%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Hobbie%20E.%20A.%2C%20Macko%20S.%20H%2C%20Shugart%20H.%20Interpretation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotope%20signatures%20using%20the%20NIFTE%20model%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Hobbie%20E.%20A.%2C%20Macko%20S.%20H%2C%20Shugart%20H.%20Interpretation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotope%20signatures%20using%20the%20NIFTE%20model%201999)

[^Hoering_1960_a]: Hoering T.C. & Ford H.T. (1960) The isotope effect in the fixation of nitrogen by Azotobacter. Journal of the American Chemical Society 82, 376–378. [[Hoering_IsotopeEffectFixationNitrogenAzotobacter_1960]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=C.%2C%20Hoering%20T.%20T%2C%20Ford%20H.%20The%20isotope%20effect%20in%20the%20fixation%20of%20nitrogen%20by%20Azotobacter%201960) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=C.%2C%20Hoering%20T.%20T%2C%20Ford%20H.%20The%20isotope%20effect%20in%20the%20fixation%20of%20nitrogen%20by%20Azotobacter%201960) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=C.%2C%20Hoering%20T.%20T%2C%20Ford%20H.%20The%20isotope%20effect%20in%20the%20fixation%20of%20nitrogen%20by%20Azotobacter%201960)

[^Hogberg_1997_a]: Hogberg P. (1997) Tansley review No. 95. 15N natural abundance in soil-plant systems. New Phytologist 137, 179–203. [[Hogberg_TansleyReviewNo9515n_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hogberg%2C%20P.%20Tansley%20review%20No.%2095.%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20soil-plant%20systems%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hogberg%2C%20P.%20Tansley%20review%20No.%2095.%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20soil-plant%20systems%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hogberg%2C%20P.%20Tansley%20review%20No.%2095.%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20soil-plant%20systems%201997)

[^Houlton_2009_a]: Houlton B.Z. & Bai E. (2009) Imprint of denitrifying bacteria on the global terrestrial biosphere. Proceedings of The National Academy of Sciences of The United States of America 106, 21713–21716. [[Houlton_ImprintDenitrifyingBacteriaGlobalTerrestrial_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Z.%2C%20Houlton%20B.%20E%2C%20Bai%20Imprint%20of%20denitrifying%20bacteria%20on%20the%20global%20terrestrial%20biosphere%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Z.%2C%20Houlton%20B.%20E%2C%20Bai%20Imprint%20of%20denitrifying%20bacteria%20on%20the%20global%20terrestrial%20biosphere%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Z.%2C%20Houlton%20B.%20E%2C%20Bai%20Imprint%20of%20denitrifying%20bacteria%20on%20the%20global%20terrestrial%20biosphere%202009)

[^Joy_1988_a]: Joy K. (1988) Ammonia, glutamine, and asparagine: a carbon-nitrogen interface. Canadian Journal of Botany-Revue Canadienne de Botanique 66, 2103– 2109. [[Joy_AmmoniaGlutamineAsparagineCarbonnitrogenInterface_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Joy%2C%20K.%20Ammonia%2C%20glutamine%2C%20and%20asparagine%3A%20a%20carbon-nitrogen%20interface%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Joy%2C%20K.%20Ammonia%2C%20glutamine%2C%20and%20asparagine%3A%20a%20carbon-nitrogen%20interface%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Joy%2C%20K.%20Ammonia%2C%20glutamine%2C%20and%20asparagine%3A%20a%20carbon-nitrogen%20interface%201988)

[^Kays_1980_a]: Kays V. & Crawford M. (1980) Convective Heat and Mass Transfer. McGrawHill, New York. [[Kays_ConvectiveHeatMassTransfer_1980]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=V.%2C%20Kays%20M%2C%20Crawford%20Convective%20Heat%20and%20Mass%20Transfer%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=V.%2C%20Kays%20M%2C%20Crawford%20Convective%20Heat%20and%20Mass%20Transfer%201980) 

[^Keys_2006_a]: Keys A.J. (2006) The re-assimilation of ammonia produced by photorespiration and the nitrogen economy of C3 higher plants. Photosynthesis Research 87, 165–175. [[Keys_assimilationAmmoniaProducedPhotorespirationNitrogen_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=J%2C%20Keys%20A.%20The%20re-assimilation%20of%20ammonia%20produced%20by%20photorespiration%20and%20the%20nitrogen%20economy%20of%20C3%20higher%20plants%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=J%2C%20Keys%20A.%20The%20re-assimilation%20of%20ammonia%20produced%20by%20photorespiration%20and%20the%20nitrogen%20economy%20of%20C3%20higher%20plants%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=J%2C%20Keys%20A.%20The%20re-assimilation%20of%20ammonia%20produced%20by%20photorespiration%20and%20the%20nitrogen%20economy%20of%20C3%20higher%20plants%202006)

[^Kreyszig_2011_a]: Kreyszig E. (2011) Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 10th edn. Wiley, Hoboken, NJ. [[Kreyszig_AdvancedEngineeringMathematics_2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kreyszig%2C%20E.%20Advanced%20Engineering%20Mathematics%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kreyszig%2C%20E.%20Advanced%20Engineering%20Mathematics%202011) 

[^Ledgard_et+al_1985_a]: Ledgard S., Woo K. & Bergersen F. (1985) Isotopic fractionation during reduction of nitrate and nitrite by extracts of spinach leaves. Australian Journal of Plant Physiology 12, 631–640. [[Ledgard_et+al_IsotopicFractionationDuringReductionNitrate_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=S.%2C%20Ledgard%20K.%2C%20Woo%20F%2C%20Bergersen%20Isotopic%20fractionation%20during%20reduction%20of%20nitrate%20and%20nitrite%20by%20extracts%20of%20spinach%20leaves%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=S.%2C%20Ledgard%20K.%2C%20Woo%20F%2C%20Bergersen%20Isotopic%20fractionation%20during%20reduction%20of%20nitrate%20and%20nitrite%20by%20extracts%20of%20spinach%20leaves%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=S.%2C%20Ledgard%20K.%2C%20Woo%20F%2C%20Bergersen%20Isotopic%20fractionation%20during%20reduction%20of%20nitrate%20and%20nitrite%20by%20extracts%20of%20spinach%20leaves%201985)

[^Mariotti_1983_a]: Mariotti A. (1983) Atmospheric nitrogen is a reliable standard for natural 15N abundance measurements. Nature 303, 685–687. [[Mariotti_AtmosphericNitrogenReliableStandardNatural_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mariotti%2C%20A.%20Atmospheric%20nitrogen%20is%20a%20reliable%20standard%20for%20natural%2015N%20abundance%20measurements%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mariotti%2C%20A.%20Atmospheric%20nitrogen%20is%20a%20reliable%20standard%20for%20natural%2015N%20abundance%20measurements%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mariotti%2C%20A.%20Atmospheric%20nitrogen%20is%20a%20reliable%20standard%20for%20natural%2015N%20abundance%20measurements%201983)

[^Mariotti_et+al_1981_a]: Mariotti A., Germon J., Hubert P., Kaiser P., Letolle R., Tardieux A. & Tardieux P. (1981) Experimental determination of nitrogen kinetic isotope fractionation: some principles; illustration for the denitrification and nitrification processes. Plant and Soil 62, 413–430. [[Mariotti_et+al_ExperimentalDeterminationNitrogenKineticIsotope_1981]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Mariotti%20J.%2C%20Germon%20P.%2C%20Hubert%20P.%2C%20Kaiser%20Experimental%20determination%20of%20nitrogen%20kinetic%20isotope%20fractionation%3A%20some%20principles%3B%20illustration%20for%20the%20denitrification%20and%20nitrification%20processes.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%2062%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Mariotti%20J.%2C%20Germon%20P.%2C%20Hubert%20P.%2C%20Kaiser%20Experimental%20determination%20of%20nitrogen%20kinetic%20isotope%20fractionation%3A%20some%20principles%3B%20illustration%20for%20the%20denitrification%20and%20nitrification%20processes.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%2062%201981) 

[^Mariotti_et+al_1982_a]: Mariotti A., Mariotti F., Champigny M.L., Amarger N. & Moyse A. (1982) Nitrogen isotope fractionation associated with nitrate reductase activity and uptake of NO3- by pearl millet. Plant Physiology 69, 880–884. [[Mariotti_et+al_NitrogenIsotopeFractionationAssociatedWith_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Mariotti%20F.%2C%20Mariotti%20L.%2C%20Champigny%20M.%20N.%2C%20Amarger%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20associated%20with%20nitrate%20reductase%20activity%20and%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20by%20pearl%20millet%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Mariotti%20F.%2C%20Mariotti%20L.%2C%20Champigny%20M.%20N.%2C%20Amarger%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20associated%20with%20nitrate%20reductase%20activity%20and%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20by%20pearl%20millet%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Mariotti%20F.%2C%20Mariotti%20L.%2C%20Champigny%20M.%20N.%2C%20Amarger%20Nitrogen%20isotope%20fractionation%20associated%20with%20nitrate%20reductase%20activity%20and%20uptake%20of%20NO3-%20by%20pearl%20millet%201982)

[^Martin_et+al_1983_a]: Martin F., Winspear M., MacFarlane J. & Oaks A. (1983) Effect of methionine sulfoximine on the accumulation of ammonia in C3 and C4 leaves – the relationship between NH3 accumulation and photorespiratory activity. Plant Physiology 71, 177–181. [[Martin_et+al_EffectMethionineSulfoximineAccumulationAmmonia_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=F.%2C%20Martin%20M.%2C%20Winspear%20J.%2C%20MacFarlane%20A%2C%20Oaks%20Effect%20of%20methionine%20sulfoximine%20on%20the%20accumulation%20of%20ammonia%20in%20C3%20and%20C4%20leaves%20%E2%80%93%20the%20relationship%20between%20NH3%20accumulation%20and%20photorespiratory%20activity%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F.%2C%20Martin%20M.%2C%20Winspear%20J.%2C%20MacFarlane%20A%2C%20Oaks%20Effect%20of%20methionine%20sulfoximine%20on%20the%20accumulation%20of%20ammonia%20in%20C3%20and%20C4%20leaves%20%E2%80%93%20the%20relationship%20between%20NH3%20accumulation%20and%20photorespiratory%20activity%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=F.%2C%20Martin%20M.%2C%20Winspear%20J.%2C%20MacFarlane%20A%2C%20Oaks%20Effect%20of%20methionine%20sulfoximine%20on%20the%20accumulation%20of%20ammonia%20in%20C3%20and%20C4%20leaves%20%E2%80%93%20the%20relationship%20between%20NH3%20accumulation%20and%20photorespiratory%20activity%201983)

[^Martinelli_et+al_1999_a]: Martinelli L.A., Piccolo M.C., Townsend A.R., Vitousek P.M., Cuevas E., McDowell W., Robertson G.P., Santos O.C. & Treseder K. (1999) Nitrogen stable isotopic composition of leaves and soil: tropical versus temperate forests. Biogeochemistry 46, 45–65. [[Martinelli_et+al_NitrogenStableIsotopicCompositionLeaves_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=A.%2C%20Martinelli%20L.%20C.%2C%20Piccolo%20M.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nitrogen%20stable%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20leaves%20and%20soil%3A%20tropical%20versus%20temperate%20forests%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A.%2C%20Martinelli%20L.%20C.%2C%20Piccolo%20M.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nitrogen%20stable%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20leaves%20and%20soil%3A%20tropical%20versus%20temperate%20forests%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=A.%2C%20Martinelli%20L.%20C.%2C%20Piccolo%20M.%20R.%2C%20Townsend%20A.%20M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20Nitrogen%20stable%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20leaves%20and%20soil%3A%20tropical%20versus%20temperate%20forests%201999)

[^Mason_1970_a]: Mason E. & Marrero T. (1970) The diffusion of atoms and molecules. Advances in Atomic and Molecular Physics 6, 155–232. [[Mason_DiffusionAtomsMolecules_1970]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Mason%20T%2C%20Marrero%20The%20diffusion%20of%20atoms%20and%20molecules%201970) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Mason%20T%2C%20Marrero%20The%20diffusion%20of%20atoms%20and%20molecules%201970) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Mason%20T%2C%20Marrero%20The%20diffusion%20of%20atoms%20and%20molecules%201970)

[^Massad_et+al_2008_a]: Massad R.S., Loubet B., Tuzet A. & Cellier P. (2008) Relationship between ammonia stomatal compensation point and nitrogen metabolism in arable crops: current status of knowledge and potential modelling approaches. Environmental Pollution 154, 390–403. [[Massad_et+al_RelationshipBetweenAmmoniaStomatalCompensation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=S.%2C%20Massad%20R.%20B.%2C%20Loubet%20A.%2C%20Tuzet%20P%2C%20Cellier%20Relationship%20between%20ammonia%20stomatal%20compensation%20point%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%20in%20arable%20crops%3A%20current%20status%20of%20knowledge%20and%20potential%20modelling%20approaches%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=S.%2C%20Massad%20R.%20B.%2C%20Loubet%20A.%2C%20Tuzet%20P%2C%20Cellier%20Relationship%20between%20ammonia%20stomatal%20compensation%20point%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%20in%20arable%20crops%3A%20current%20status%20of%20knowledge%20and%20potential%20modelling%20approaches%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=S.%2C%20Massad%20R.%20B.%2C%20Loubet%20A.%2C%20Tuzet%20P%2C%20Cellier%20Relationship%20between%20ammonia%20stomatal%20compensation%20point%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%20in%20arable%20crops%3A%20current%20status%20of%20knowledge%20and%20potential%20modelling%20approaches%202008)

[^Moore_1974_a]: Moore H. (1974) Isotopic measurement of atmospheric nitrogen compounds. Tellus 26, 169–174. [[Moore_IsotopicMeasurementAtmosphericNitrogenCompounds_1974]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20H.%20Isotopic%20measurement%20of%20atmospheric%20nitrogen%20compounds%201974) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20H.%20Isotopic%20measurement%20of%20atmospheric%20nitrogen%20compounds%201974) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20H.%20Isotopic%20measurement%20of%20atmospheric%20nitrogen%20compounds%201974)

[^Moore_1977_a]: Moore H. (1977) The isotopic composition of ammonia, nitrogen dioxide and nitrate in the atmosphere. Atmospheric Environment 11, 1239–1243. [[Moore_IsotopicCompositionAmmoniaNitrogenDioxide_1977]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20H.%20The%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20ammonia%2C%20nitrogen%20dioxide%20and%20nitrate%20in%20the%20atmosphere%201977) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20H.%20The%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20ammonia%2C%20nitrogen%20dioxide%20and%20nitrate%20in%20the%20atmosphere%201977) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20H.%20The%20isotopic%20composition%20of%20ammonia%2C%20nitrogen%20dioxide%20and%20nitrate%20in%20the%20atmosphere%201977)

[^Murphy_2009_a]: Murphy B.P. & Bowman D.M. (2009) The carbon and nitrogen isotope composition of Australian grasses in relation to climate. Functional Ecology 23, 1040–1049. [[Murphy_CarbonNitrogenIsotopeCompositionAustralian_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=P.%2C%20Murphy%20B.%20M%2C%20Bowman%20D.%20The%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20Australian%20grasses%20in%20relation%20to%20climate%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=P.%2C%20Murphy%20B.%20M%2C%20Bowman%20D.%20The%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20Australian%20grasses%20in%20relation%20to%20climate%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=P.%2C%20Murphy%20B.%20M%2C%20Bowman%20D.%20The%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20isotope%20composition%20of%20Australian%20grasses%20in%20relation%20to%20climate%202009)

[^Norlin_et+al_2002_a]: Norlin E., Irgum K. & Ohlsson K.E.A. (2002) Determination of the 15N/14N ratio of ammonium and ammonia in aqueous solutions by equilibrium headspace-gas chromatography-combustion- isotope ratio mass spectrometry. The Analyst 127, 735–740. [[Norlin_et+al_Determination15n14nRatioAmmoniumAmmonia_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Norlin%20K.%2C%20Irgum%20A%2C%20Ohlsson%20K.E.%20Determination%20of%20the%2015N/14N%20ratio%20of%20ammonium%20and%20ammonia%20in%20aqueous%20solutions%20by%20equilibrium%20headspace-gas%20chromatography-combustion-%20isotope%20ratio%20mass%20spectrometry%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Norlin%20K.%2C%20Irgum%20A%2C%20Ohlsson%20K.E.%20Determination%20of%20the%2015N/14N%20ratio%20of%20ammonium%20and%20ammonia%20in%20aqueous%20solutions%20by%20equilibrium%20headspace-gas%20chromatography-combustion-%20isotope%20ratio%20mass%20spectrometry%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Norlin%20K.%2C%20Irgum%20A%2C%20Ohlsson%20K.E.%20Determination%20of%20the%2015N/14N%20ratio%20of%20ammonium%20and%20ammonia%20in%20aqueous%20solutions%20by%20equilibrium%20headspace-gas%20chromatography-combustion-%20isotope%20ratio%20mass%20spectrometry%202002)

[^O_1981_a]: O’Leary M. (1981) Carbon isotope fractionation in plants. Phytochemistry 29, 553–567. [[O_CarbonIsotopeFractionationPlants_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=O%E2%80%99Leary%2C%20M.%20Carbon%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20plants%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=O%E2%80%99Leary%2C%20M.%20Carbon%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20plants%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=O%E2%80%99Leary%2C%20M.%20Carbon%20isotope%20fractionation%20in%20plants%201981)

[^Ogle_et+al_2004_a]: Ogle K., Wolpert R. & Reynolds J. (2004) Reconstructing plant root area and water uptake profiles. Ecology 85, 1967–1978. [[Ogle_et+al_ReconstructingPlantRootAreaWater_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=K.%2C%20Ogle%20R.%2C%20Wolpert%20J%2C%20Reynolds%20Reconstructing%20plant%20root%20area%20and%20water%20uptake%20profiles%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=K.%2C%20Ogle%20R.%2C%20Wolpert%20J%2C%20Reynolds%20Reconstructing%20plant%20root%20area%20and%20water%20uptake%20profiles%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=K.%2C%20Ogle%20R.%2C%20Wolpert%20J%2C%20Reynolds%20Reconstructing%20plant%20root%20area%20and%20water%20uptake%20profiles%202004)

[^Ometto_et+al_2006_a]: Ometto J., Ehleringer J.R., Domingues T.F., Berry J.A., Ishida F.Y., Mazzi E., Higuchi N., Flanagan L.B., Nardoto G.B. & Martinelli L.A. (2006) Nitrogen cycling in the Americas: natural and anthropogenic influences and controls. Biogeochemistry 79, 251–274. [[Ometto_et+al_NitrogenCyclingAmericasNaturalAnthropogenic_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=J.%2C%20Ometto%20R.%2C%20Ehleringer%20J.%20F.%2C%20Domingues%20T.%20A.%2C%20Berry%20J.%20Nitrogen%20cycling%20in%20the%20Americas%3A%20natural%20and%20anthropogenic%20influences%20and%20controls%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=J.%2C%20Ometto%20R.%2C%20Ehleringer%20J.%20F.%2C%20Domingues%20T.%20A.%2C%20Berry%20J.%20Nitrogen%20cycling%20in%20the%20Americas%3A%20natural%20and%20anthropogenic%20influences%20and%20controls%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=J.%2C%20Ometto%20R.%2C%20Ehleringer%20J.%20F.%2C%20Domingues%20T.%20A.%2C%20Berry%20J.%20Nitrogen%20cycling%20in%20the%20Americas%3A%20natural%20and%20anthropogenic%20influences%20and%20controls%202006)

[^Peterson_1987_a]: Peterson B. & Fry B. (1987) Stable isotopes in ecosystem studies. Annual Review of Ecology And Systematics 18, 293–320. [[Peterson_StableIsotopesEcosystemStudies_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=B.%2C%20Peterson%20B%2C%20Fry%20Stable%20isotopes%20in%20ecosystem%20studies%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=B.%2C%20Peterson%20B%2C%20Fry%20Stable%20isotopes%20in%20ecosystem%20studies%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=B.%2C%20Peterson%20B%2C%20Fry%20Stable%20isotopes%20in%20ecosystem%20studies%201987)

[^Robinson_2001_a]: Robinson D. (2001) d15N as an integrator of the nitrogen cycle. Trends in Ecology & Evolution 16, 153–162. [[Robinson_D15nIntegratorNitrogenCycle_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Robinson%2C%20D.%20d15N%20as%20an%20integrator%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Robinson%2C%20D.%20d15N%20as%20an%20integrator%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Robinson%2C%20D.%20d15N%20as%20an%20integrator%20of%20the%20nitrogen%20cycle%202001)

[^Robinson_et+al_1998_a]: Robinson D., Handley L. & Scrimgeour C. (1998) A theory for 15N/14N fractionation in nitrate-grown vascular plants. Planta 205, 397–406. [[Robinson_et+al_Theory15n14nFractionationNitrategrownVascular_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=D.%2C%20Robinson%20L.%2C%20Handley%20C%2C%20Scrimgeour%20A%20theory%20for%2015N/14N%20fractionation%20in%20nitrate-grown%20vascular%20plants%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D.%2C%20Robinson%20L.%2C%20Handley%20C%2C%20Scrimgeour%20A%20theory%20for%2015N/14N%20fractionation%20in%20nitrate-grown%20vascular%20plants%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=D.%2C%20Robinson%20L.%2C%20Handley%20C%2C%20Scrimgeour%20A%20theory%20for%2015N/14N%20fractionation%20in%20nitrate-grown%20vascular%20plants%201998)

[^Rooney_1988_a]: Rooney M.A. (1988) Short-term carbon isotopic fractionation in plants, Ph.D. thesis, University of Wisconsin-Madison. [[Rooney_ShorttermCarbonIsotopicFractionationPlants_1988]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%2C%20Rooney%20M.%20Short-term%20carbon%20isotopic%20fractionation%20in%20plants%2C%20Ph%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=A%2C%20Rooney%20M.%20Short-term%20carbon%20isotopic%20fractionation%20in%20plants%2C%20Ph%201988) 

[^Schjoerring_et+al_2002_a]: Schjoerring J.K., Husted S., Mack G. & Mattsson M. (2002) The regulation of ammonium translocation in plants. Journal of Experimental Botany 53, 883– 890. [[Schjoerring_et+al_RegulationAmmoniumTranslocationPlants_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=K.%2C%20Schjoerring%20J.%20S.%2C%20Husted%20G.%2C%20Mack%20M%2C%20Mattsson%20The%20regulation%20of%20ammonium%20translocation%20in%20plants%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=K.%2C%20Schjoerring%20J.%20S.%2C%20Husted%20G.%2C%20Mack%20M%2C%20Mattsson%20The%20regulation%20of%20ammonium%20translocation%20in%20plants%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=K.%2C%20Schjoerring%20J.%20S.%2C%20Husted%20G.%2C%20Mack%20M%2C%20Mattsson%20The%20regulation%20of%20ammonium%20translocation%20in%20plants%202002)

[^Schulze_et+al_1994_a]: Schulze E., Chapin F. & Gebauer G. (1994) Nitrogen nutrition and isotope differences among life forms at the northern treeline of Alaska. Oecologia 100, 406–412. [[Schulze_et+al_NitrogenNutritionIsotopeDifferencesAmong_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Schulze%20F.%2C%20Chapin%20G%2C%20Gebauer%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%20and%20isotope%20differences%20among%20life%20forms%20at%20the%20northern%20treeline%20of%20Alaska%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Schulze%20F.%2C%20Chapin%20G%2C%20Gebauer%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%20and%20isotope%20differences%20among%20life%20forms%20at%20the%20northern%20treeline%20of%20Alaska%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Schulze%20F.%2C%20Chapin%20G%2C%20Gebauer%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%20and%20isotope%20differences%20among%20life%20forms%20at%20the%20northern%20treeline%20of%20Alaska%201994)

[^Schuur_2001_a]: Schuur E. & Matson P. (2001) Net primary productivity and nutrient cycling across a mesic to wet precipitation gradient in Hawaiian montane forest. Oecologia 128, 431–442. [[Schuur_PrimaryProductivityNutrientCyclingAcross_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Schuur%20P%2C%20Matson%20Net%20primary%20productivity%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20across%20a%20mesic%20to%20wet%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forest%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Schuur%20P%2C%20Matson%20Net%20primary%20productivity%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20across%20a%20mesic%20to%20wet%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forest%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Schuur%20P%2C%20Matson%20Net%20primary%20productivity%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%20across%20a%20mesic%20to%20wet%20precipitation%20gradient%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forest%202001)

[^Tcherkez_2011_a]: Tcherkez G. (2011) Natural 15N/14N isotope composition in C3 leaves: are enzymatic isotope effects informative for predicting the 15N abundance in key metabolites? Functional Plant Biology 38, 1–12. [[Tcherkez_Natural15n14nIsotopeCompositionC3_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tcherkez%2C%20G.%20Natural%2015N/14N%20isotope%20composition%20in%20C3%20leaves%3A%20are%20enzymatic%20isotope%20effects%20informative%20for%20predicting%20the%2015N%20abundance%20in%20key%20metabolites%3F%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tcherkez%2C%20G.%20Natural%2015N/14N%20isotope%20composition%20in%20C3%20leaves%3A%20are%20enzymatic%20isotope%20effects%20informative%20for%20predicting%20the%2015N%20abundance%20in%20key%20metabolites%3F%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tcherkez%2C%20G.%20Natural%2015N/14N%20isotope%20composition%20in%20C3%20leaves%3A%20are%20enzymatic%20isotope%20effects%20informative%20for%20predicting%20the%2015N%20abundance%20in%20key%20metabolites%3F%202011)

[^Tozer_et+al_2005_a]: Tozer W.C., Hackell D., Miers D.B. & Silvester W.B. (2005) Extreme isotopic depletion of nitrogen in New Zealand lithophytes and epiphytes; the result of diffusive uptake of atmospheric ammonia? Oecologia 144, 628– 635. [[Tozer_et+al_ExtremeIsotopicDepletionNitrogenNew_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=C.%2C%20Tozer%20W.%20D.%2C%20Hackell%20B.%2C%20Miers%20D.%20B%2C%20Silvester%20W.%20Extreme%20isotopic%20depletion%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20New%20Zealand%20lithophytes%20and%20epiphytes%3B%20the%20result%20of%20diffusive%20uptake%20of%20atmospheric%20ammonia%3F%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=C.%2C%20Tozer%20W.%20D.%2C%20Hackell%20B.%2C%20Miers%20D.%20B%2C%20Silvester%20W.%20Extreme%20isotopic%20depletion%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20New%20Zealand%20lithophytes%20and%20epiphytes%3B%20the%20result%20of%20diffusive%20uptake%20of%20atmospheric%20ammonia%3F%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=C.%2C%20Tozer%20W.%20D.%2C%20Hackell%20B.%2C%20Miers%20D.%20B%2C%20Silvester%20W.%20Extreme%20isotopic%20depletion%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20New%20Zealand%20lithophytes%20and%20epiphytes%3B%20the%20result%20of%20diffusive%20uptake%20of%20atmospheric%20ammonia%3F%202005)

[^Trefethen_1997_a]: Trefethen L.N. & Bau D. (1997) Numerical Linear Algebra. Society for Industrial & Applied Mathematics, Philadelphia, PA. [[Trefethen_NumericalLinearAlgebra_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=N.%2C%20Trefethen%20L.%20D%2C%20Bau%20Numerical%20Linear%20Algebra%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=N.%2C%20Trefethen%20L.%20D%2C%20Bau%20Numerical%20Linear%20Algebra%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=N.%2C%20Trefethen%20L.%20D%2C%20Bau%20Numerical%20Linear%20Algebra%201997)

[^Vallano_2012_a]: Vallano D.M. & Sparks J.P. (2012) Foliar d15N is affected by foliar nitrogen uptake, soil nitrogen, and mycorrhizae along a nitrogen deposition gradient. Oecologia doi:10.1007/s00442-012-2489-3. [[Vallano_FoliarD15nAffectedFoliarNitrogen_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00442-012-2489-3)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s00442-012-2489-3)

[^Vitousek_et+al_1989_a]: Vitousek P.M., Shearer G. & Kohl D. (1989) Foliar 15N natural abundance in Hawaiian rainforest - patterns and possible mechanisms. Oecologia 78, 383– 388. [[Vitousek_et+al_Foliar15nNaturalAbundanceHawaiian_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20G.%2C%20Shearer%20D%2C%20Kohl%20Foliar%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20Hawaiian%20rainforest%20-%20patterns%20and%20possible%20mechanisms%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20G.%2C%20Shearer%20D%2C%20Kohl%20Foliar%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20Hawaiian%20rainforest%20-%20patterns%20and%20possible%20mechanisms%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M.%2C%20Vitousek%20P.%20G.%2C%20Shearer%20D%2C%20Kohl%20Foliar%2015N%20natural%20abundance%20in%20Hawaiian%20rainforest%20-%20patterns%20and%20possible%20mechanisms%201989)

[^Wada_et+al_1981_a]: Wada E., Shibata R. & Torii T. (1981) 15N Abundance in Antarctica - Origin of soil nitrogen and ecological implications. Nature 292, 327–329. [[Wada_et+al_15nAbundanceAntarcticaOrigin_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=E.%2C%20Wada%20R.%2C%20Shibata%20T%2C%20Torii%2015N%20Abundance%20in%20Antarctica%20-%20Origin%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20and%20ecological%20implications%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=E.%2C%20Wada%20R.%2C%20Shibata%20T%2C%20Torii%2015N%20Abundance%20in%20Antarctica%20-%20Origin%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20and%20ecological%20implications%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=E.%2C%20Wada%20R.%2C%20Shibata%20T%2C%20Torii%2015N%20Abundance%20in%20Antarctica%20-%20Origin%20of%20soil%20nitrogen%20and%20ecological%20implications%201981)

[^Wagner_2002_a]: Wagner W. & Pruss A. (2002) The IAPWS formulation 1995 for the thermodynamic properties of ordinary water substance for general and scientific use. Journal of Physical and Chemical Reference Data 31, 387–536. [[Wagner_IapwsFormulation1995ThermodynamicProperties_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wagner%20W%20%20Pruss%20A%202002%20The%20IAPWS%20formulation%201995%20for%20the%20thermodynamic%20properties%20of%20ordinary%20water%20substance%20for%20general%20and%20scientific%20use%20Journal%20of%20Physical%20and%20Chemical%20Reference%20Data%2031%20387536) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagner%20W%20%20Pruss%20A%202002%20The%20IAPWS%20formulation%201995%20for%20the%20thermodynamic%20properties%20of%20ordinary%20water%20substance%20for%20general%20and%20scientific%20use%20Journal%20of%20Physical%20and%20Chemical%20Reference%20Data%2031%20387536) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wagner%20W%20%20Pruss%20A%202002%20The%20IAPWS%20formulation%201995%20for%20the%20thermodynamic%20properties%20of%20ordinary%20water%20substance%20for%20general%20and%20scientific%20use%20Journal%20of%20Physical%20and%20Chemical%20Reference%20Data%2031%20387536)

[^Werner_2002_a]: Werner R. & Schmidt H. (2002) The in vivo nitrogen isotope discrimination among organic plant compounds. Phytochemistry 61, 465–484. [[Werner_VivoNitrogenIsotopeDiscriminationAmong_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=R.%2C%20Werner%20H%2C%20Schmidt%20The%20in%20vivo%20nitrogen%20isotope%20discrimination%20among%20organic%20plant%20compounds%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=R.%2C%20Werner%20H%2C%20Schmidt%20The%20in%20vivo%20nitrogen%20isotope%20discrimination%20among%20organic%20plant%20compounds%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=R.%2C%20Werner%20H%2C%20Schmidt%20The%20in%20vivo%20nitrogen%20isotope%20discrimination%20among%20organic%20plant%20compounds%202002)

[^Yoneyama_et+al_1993_a]: Yoneyama T., Kamachi K., Yamaya T. & Mae T. (1993) Fractionation of nitrogen isotopes by glutamine synthetase isolated from spinach leaves. Plant and Cell Physiology 34, 489–491. [[Yoneyama_et+al_FractionationNitrogenIsotopesGlutamineSynthetase_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=T.%2C%20Yoneyama%20K.%2C%20Kamachi%20T.%2C%20Yamaya%20T%2C%20Mae%20Fractionation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20by%20glutamine%20synthetase%20isolated%20from%20spinach%20leaves%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=T.%2C%20Yoneyama%20K.%2C%20Kamachi%20T.%2C%20Yamaya%20T%2C%20Mae%20Fractionation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20by%20glutamine%20synthetase%20isolated%20from%20spinach%20leaves%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=T.%2C%20Yoneyama%20K.%2C%20Kamachi%20T.%2C%20Yamaya%20T%2C%20Mae%20Fractionation%20of%20nitrogen%20isotopes%20by%20glutamine%20synthetase%20isolated%20from%20spinach%20leaves%201993)

