[[Maseko_et+al_HarnessingEcosystemServicesFromBiological_2019]]

# [Harnessing ecosystem services from biological nitrogen fixation](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/b978-0-12-816436-5.00004-4)

## [[Sipho T. Maseko]]; [[Mpelang P. Maredi]]; [[Cherian Mathews]] et al.

### 2019

## Abstract
Nitrogen is the ==most important mineral element needed by plants for growth and functioning==. However, ==only a tiny fraction of planetary N is available to plants in the pedosphere==. Much of atmospheric N2 (78%) is unavailable for direct use by plants that lack mechanisms to fix it. One process that converts atmospheric N2 into inorganic N fertilizer for use by plants is the Bosch-Haber process ([^Smil_2001_a]). When applied in amounts not toxic to the environment, N fertilizers have contributed hugely to increased food production and nutritional security. There are however two main challenges with the frequent use of inorganic N sources: (1) they are expensive and unaffordable to small-scale farmers and (2) they are susceptible to leaching and can thus pollute the environment and the atmosphere. Affordability, access, and distribution of N fertilizers differ within, between, and among countries. For example, across sub-Saharan Africa, access to and ==usage of N fertilizers is increasing given the subsidized support by some governments== ([^Sanchez_2015_a]; [^Moloto_et+al_2018_a]). In contrast, ==there is a decrease in the use of N fertilizers== in other regions such as East Africa and China ([^Mueller_et+al_2017_a]). ==Overall the application of N fertilizers for increased crop production is associated with some inefficiency== as only ==about 50% of the applied N gets absorbed by plants== ([^Erisman_et+al_2011_a]). The remainder either remains in the soil or is lost through runoff, volatilization, denitrification, and/or leaching ([^Russo_et+al_2017_a]; [^van_der_Laan_et+al_2017_a]; [^Tang_et+al_2018_a]). ==These factors explain why N fertilizers are adopted with caution==, despite their contribution to food security. Given their high cost, ==N fertilizers generally do not play a significant role in low-input agricultural systems==.

## Key concepts
#african; #nitrogen_fixation; #organic_carbon; #cyclopia; #microorganisms; #food_production; #phaseolus_vulgaris; #sub_saharan_africa; #aspalathus_linearis; #saharan

## Quote
> By contrast, when TUv 546 was raised without rhizobial inoculation, the soleplanted grain legume contributed N that was similar to that when it was intercropped with maize but exhibited the lowest compared with when intercropped with sorghum


## Key points
- Nitrogen is the most important mineral element needed by plants for growth and functioning
- This review is aimed at underlining the valuable role played by legume species in agricultural and natural ecosystems. This includes their ability to contribute N especially to low inputs systems through nitrogen fixation to increase the solubility, uptake, and accumulation of mineral nutrient elements in plant organs and in the rhizosphere soil and benefits associated with cereal-legume rotation, including increased biomass production, suppression of diseases, increased soil and tissue mineral nutrients, increased and diverse microbial populations, and increased resistance of physicochemical and biological properties to disturbances
- Based on 65 studies in the USA and Canada, Marcillo and Miguez (2017) legumes used as winter cover crops increased maize yields through provision of sufficient N to crops grown in rotation, reducing inputs such as chemical fertilizers ([^Magdoff_2004_a]), as a result of increased N in soils ([^Wayman_et+al_2015_a])
- By contrast, when TUv 546 was raised without rhizobial inoculation, the soleplanted grain legume contributed N that was similar to that when it was intercropped with maize (46.70 and 47.72 kg haÀ1) but exhibited the lowest compared with when intercropped with sorghum (57.76 kg haÀ1)
- Rotation of dry bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and wheat with the legume planted as a preceding crop where at the end of the cropping, residues of the common bean were incorporated into the soil, and it had a significant effect on wheat through increasing its grain Zn compared with wheat residues and control treatment ([^Arani_et+al_2018_a])
- Studies that reported suppression of diseases by cereal-legume rotation include that by [^Bagayoko_et+al_2000_a],b) who showed markedly lower populations of nematodes where sorghum was rotated with groundnut; this was specific to plant species as the benefit was not observed in the pearl millet/ cowpea rotation

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Nitrogen is the most important mineral element needed by plants for growth and functioning.
This review is aimed at underlining the valuable role played by legume species in agricultural and natural ecosystems
This includes their ability to contribute N especially to low inputs systems through nitrogen fixation to increase the solubility, uptake, and accumulation of mineral nutrient elements in plant organs and in the rhizosphere soil and benefits associated with cereal-legume rotation, including increased biomass production, suppression of diseases, increased soil and tissue mineral nutrients, increased and diverse microbial populations, and increased resistance of physicochemical and biological properties to disturbances.
These include that shown by [^Tye_2012_a]) who reported that Acacia mearnsii depends on atmospheric

### Shoot DM
31.18 Æ 3.91cde 2.13 Æ 1.90a 0.64 Æ 0.07bcd À1.33 Æ 0.24 ab 86.74 Æ 3.68 ab 47.72 Æ 6.71abcd 5.90 Æ 1.71bc.
Based on 65 studies in the USA and Canada, Marcillo and Miguez (2017) legumes used as winter cover crops increased maize yields through provision of sufficient N to crops grown in rotation, reducing inputs such as chemical fertilizers ([^Magdoff_2004_a]), as a result of increased N in soils ([^Wayman_et+al_2015_a])
Despite these marked positive effects of leguminous cover crops in cropping systems, in Southern Africa small-scale farmers are unable to tap these benefits because of uncontrolled bush fires, as well as the combined practice of crop and livestock farming, where livestock are allowed into farmers’ fields for feed

### Factors affecting N contribution by legumes
The amount of N that a legume can contribute is affected by a variety of factors, including inoculation and the tillage system.
Cowpea inoculated with strain BR3267 showed grain productivity similar to the plants receiving 50 kg N haÀ1 in the dryland areas of Brazil ([^Martins_et+al_2003_a]; [^Dwivedi_et+al_2015_a]).
By contrast, when TUv 546 was raised without rhizobial inoculation, the soleplanted grain legume contributed N that was similar to that when it was intercropped with maize (46.70 and 47.72 kg haÀ1) but exhibited the lowest compared with when intercropped with sorghum (57.76 kg haÀ1).
Uninoculated sole-planted Pan 311 on the other hand contributed the lowest N (31.05) compared with when intercropped with maize (52.97) and sorghum (43.96)

### Soil mineral enrichment by symbiotic legumes
High productivity legumes can contribute significantly to soil carbon enrichment. Low carbon in soils can be improved through the inclusion of symbiotic legumes in cropping systems.
A maize-oat-alfalfa rotation resulted in higher soil organic carbon when compared with monoculture ([^Gregorich_et+al_2000_a]).
The intercropping of legumes with nonlegumes enriches the mineral nutrition, especially in low-nutrient soils ([^Singh_2017_a]).
In low-nutrient soils the intercropping of legumes with cereals has generally resulted in increased concentrations of N, P, Fe, Na, S, Ca, and Mg ([^Betencourt_et+al_2012_a]; [^Makoi_et+al_2014_a]; [^Wang_et+al_2017_a]; [^Li_et+al_2018_a]).
The increase in mineral nutrition promoted by legume/cereal intercropping improves nutrient accumulation in parts of legume and nonlegume crops.
For symbiotic grain legumes, higher N fixation is largely related to greater contribution of mineral nutrients ([^Belane_et+al_2014_a]</a>).

### Rhizosphere pH
1542.49 Æ 112.50a 1549.49 Æ 31.50a 1646.49 Æ 78.50a 1567.49 Æ 85.50a 1595.75 Æ 114.25a.
Rotation of dry bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and wheat with the legume planted as a preceding crop where at the end of the cropping, residues of the common bean were incorporated into the soil, and it had a significant effect on wheat through increasing its grain Zn compared with wheat residues and control treatment ([^Arani_et+al_2018_a]).
A cereal-legume rotation has positive effects, including increased soil fertility, enhanced microbial diversity, and improved disease suppressive capacity.
Studies that reported suppression of diseases by cereal-legume rotation include that by [^Bagayoko_et+al_2000_a],b) who showed markedly lower populations of nematodes where sorghum was rotated with groundnut; this was specific to plant species as the benefit was not observed in the pearl millet/ cowpea rotation.
[^Ai_et+al_2018_a]) found that cereal-legume rotations showed the lowest impact on bacterial microbiota relative to application of organic and inorganic fertilizers

### Further reading
R., Peukert, M., Succurro, A., Koprivova, A., Kopriva, S., 2017.
The role of soil microorganisms in plant mineral nutrition-current knowledge and future directions.
M., Blavet, D., Alkama, N., Laoufi, H., Drevon, J.J., Gerard, F., Pansu, M., Ounane, S.M., 2014.
The intercropping of cowpea-maize improves soil phosphorus availability and maize yields in an alkaline soil.


## Study subjects

### 65 studies
- A contribution by Crotalaria ochroleusa was not significant when used as a cover crop with biomass incorporation into the soil ([^Souza_et+al_2018_a]). ==Based on 65 studies in the USA and Canada, Marcillo and Miguez (2017) legumes used as winter cover crops increased maize yields through provision of sufficient N to crops grown in rotation, thus reducing inputs such as chemical fertilizers ([^Magdoff_2004_a]), as a result of increased N in soils ([^Wayman_et+al_2015_a])==. Despite these marked positive effects of leguminous cover crops in cropping systems, in Southern Africa small-scale farmers are unable to tap these benefits because of uncontrolled bush fires, as well as the combined practice of crop and livestock farming, where livestock are allowed into farmers’ fields for feed

## Findings
- N2 fixation 22% more than local species of acacia
- The use of rhizobial inoculants alone could provide more than 50% of N fertilizer required for crop production in most marginal lands ([^Chianu_et+al_2012_a])

## Differs from previous work
- For example, legumes serve as good sources of food and feed for humans and animals, cover crops for erosion control, biofertilizers for soil mineral enrichment, suppressors of weeds and diseases, enhancers of soil physicochemical and biological properties, promoters of microbial community resilience after extreme climatic events, reducers of greenhouse gas emissions, producers of biofuels, as well as esthetics in ecotourism and medicinal plants for treating human disorders and diseases ([^Stagnari_et+al_2017_a]). ==As a source of food, legumes are not only lower than cereals in area under cultivation but also in overall dietary intake on per capita consumption== ([^Mcdermott_2017_a]), despite the fact that pulses are a better source of energy, protein, vitamins, minerals, dietary fiber, phytochemicals, antioxidants, and bioactive compounds than the highly consumed cereals ([^Amarowicz_2008_a]; Singh et al, 2017)


## References
[^Acosta-Martinez_et+al_2008_a]: Acosta-Martinez, V., Acosta-Mercado, D., Sotomayor-Ramırez, D., Cruz-Rodrıguez, L., 2008. Microbial communities and enzymatic activities under different management in semiarid soils. Applied Soil Ecology 38, 249e260. [[Acosta-Martinez_et+al_MicrobialCommunitiesEnzymaticActivitiesUnder_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Acosta-Martinez%2C%20V.%20Acosta-Mercado%2C%20D.%20Sotomayor-Ram%C4%B1rez%2C%20D.%20Cruz-Rodr%C4%B1guez%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20communities%20and%20enzymatic%20activities%20under%20different%20management%20in%20semiarid%20soils%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Acosta-Martinez%2C%20V.%20Acosta-Mercado%2C%20D.%20Sotomayor-Ram%C4%B1rez%2C%20D.%20Cruz-Rodr%C4%B1guez%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20communities%20and%20enzymatic%20activities%20under%20different%20management%20in%20semiarid%20soils%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Acosta-Martinez%2C%20V.%20Acosta-Mercado%2C%20D.%20Sotomayor-Ram%C4%B1rez%2C%20D.%20Cruz-Rodr%C4%B1guez%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20communities%20and%20enzymatic%20activities%20under%20different%20management%20in%20semiarid%20soils%202008)

[^Adu-Gyamfi_et+al_2007_a]: Adu-Gyamfi, J.J., Myaka, F.A., Sakala, W.D., Odgaard, R., Versterager, J.M., HongJensen, H., 2007. Biological nitrogen fixation and nitrogen and phosphorus budgets in farmer-managed intercrops of maize-pigeonpea in semi-arid southern and eastern Africa. Plant and Soil 295, 127e136. [[Adu-Gyamfi_et+al_BiologicalNitrogenFixationNitrogenPhosphorus_2007]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Adu-Gyamfi%2C%20J.J.%20Myaka%2C%20F.A.%20Sakala%2C%20W.D.%20Odgaard%2C%20R.%20Biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20budgets%20in%20farmer-managed%20intercrops%20of%20maize-pigeonpea%20in%20semi-arid%20southern%20and%20eastern%20Africa.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20295%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Adu-Gyamfi%2C%20J.J.%20Myaka%2C%20F.A.%20Sakala%2C%20W.D.%20Odgaard%2C%20R.%20Biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20budgets%20in%20farmer-managed%20intercrops%20of%20maize-pigeonpea%20in%20semi-arid%20southern%20and%20eastern%20Africa.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20295%202007) 

[^Ai_et+al_2018_a]: Ai, C., Zhang, S., Zhang, X., Guo, D., Zhou, W., Huang, S., 2018. Distinct responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to changes in fertilization regime and crop rotation. Geoderma 319, 156e166. [[Ai_et+al_DistinctResponsesSoilBacterialFungal_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ai%2C%20C.%20Zhang%2C%20S.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Guo%2C%20D.%20Distinct%20responses%20of%20soil%20bacterial%20and%20fungal%20communities%20to%20changes%20in%20fertilization%20regime%20and%20crop%20rotation%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ai%2C%20C.%20Zhang%2C%20S.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Guo%2C%20D.%20Distinct%20responses%20of%20soil%20bacterial%20and%20fungal%20communities%20to%20changes%20in%20fertilization%20regime%20and%20crop%20rotation%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ai%2C%20C.%20Zhang%2C%20S.%20Zhang%2C%20X.%20Guo%2C%20D.%20Distinct%20responses%20of%20soil%20bacterial%20and%20fungal%20communities%20to%20changes%20in%20fertilization%20regime%20and%20crop%20rotation%202018)

[^Amarowicz_2008_a]: Amarowicz, R., Pegg, R.B., 2008. Legumes as a source of natural antioxidants. European Journal of Lipid Science and Technology 110, 865e878. [[Amarowicz_LegumesSourceNaturalAntioxidants_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Amarowicz%2C%20R.%20Pegg%2C%20R.B.%20Legumes%20as%20a%20source%20of%20natural%20antioxidants%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Amarowicz%2C%20R.%20Pegg%2C%20R.B.%20Legumes%20as%20a%20source%20of%20natural%20antioxidants%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Amarowicz%2C%20R.%20Pegg%2C%20R.B.%20Legumes%20as%20a%20source%20of%20natural%20antioxidants%202008)

[^Arani_et+al_2018_a]: Arani, A.B., Namdari, A., Nazarli, H., 2018. Wheat grain enrichment with zinc through using zinc fertiliser preceding plant residues incorporation. Agriculture 64, 80e86. [[Arani_et+al_WheatGrainEnrichmentWithZinc_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Arani%2C%20A.B.%20Namdari%2C%20A.%20Nazarli%2C%20H.%20Wheat%20grain%20enrichment%20with%20zinc%20through%20using%20zinc%20fertiliser%20preceding%20plant%20residues%20incorporation%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Arani%2C%20A.B.%20Namdari%2C%20A.%20Nazarli%2C%20H.%20Wheat%20grain%20enrichment%20with%20zinc%20through%20using%20zinc%20fertiliser%20preceding%20plant%20residues%20incorporation%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Arani%2C%20A.B.%20Namdari%2C%20A.%20Nazarli%2C%20H.%20Wheat%20grain%20enrichment%20with%20zinc%20through%20using%20zinc%20fertiliser%20preceding%20plant%20residues%20incorporation%202018)

[^Bagayoko_et+al_2000_a]: Bagayoko, M., Buerkert, A., Lung, G., Bationo, A., Romheld, V., 2000a. Cereal/legume rotation effects on cereal growth in Sudano-Sahelian West Africa: soil mineral nitrogen, mycorrhizae and nematodes. Plant and Soil 218, 103e116. [[Bagayoko_et+al_CereallegumeRotationEffectsCerealGrowth_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Lung%2C%20G.%20Bationo%2C%20A.%20Cereal/legume%20rotation%20effects%20on%20cereal%20growth%20in%20Sudano-Sahelian%20West%20Africa%3A%20soil%20mineral%20nitrogen%2C%20mycorrhizae%20and%20nematodes%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Lung%2C%20G.%20Bationo%2C%20A.%20Cereal/legume%20rotation%20effects%20on%20cereal%20growth%20in%20Sudano-Sahelian%20West%20Africa%3A%20soil%20mineral%20nitrogen%2C%20mycorrhizae%20and%20nematodes%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Lung%2C%20G.%20Bationo%2C%20A.%20Cereal/legume%20rotation%20effects%20on%20cereal%20growth%20in%20Sudano-Sahelian%20West%20Africa%3A%20soil%20mineral%20nitrogen%2C%20mycorrhizae%20and%20nematodes%202000)

[^Bagayoko_et+al_2000_b]: Bagayoko, M., George, E., Romheld, V., Buerkert, A., 2000b. Effects of mycorrhizae and phosphorus on growth and nutrient uptake of millet, cowpea and sorghum on a West African soil. The Journal of Agricultural Science 135, 399e407. [[Bagayoko_et+al_EffectsMycorrhizaePhosphorusGrowthNutrient_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20George%2C%20E.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizae%20and%20phosphorus%20on%20growth%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20millet%2C%20cowpea%20and%20sorghum%20on%20a%20West%20African%20soil%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20George%2C%20E.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizae%20and%20phosphorus%20on%20growth%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20millet%2C%20cowpea%20and%20sorghum%20on%20a%20West%20African%20soil%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bagayoko%2C%20M.%20George%2C%20E.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Buerkert%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20mycorrhizae%20and%20phosphorus%20on%20growth%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20millet%2C%20cowpea%20and%20sorghum%20on%20a%20West%20African%20soil%202000)

[^Bainard_et+al_2017_a]: Bainard, L.D., Navarro-Borrell, A., Hamel, C., Braun, K., Hanson, K., Gan, Y., 2017. Increasing the frequency of pulses in crop rotations reduces soil fungal diversity and increases the proportion of fungal pathotrophs in a semiarid agroecosystem. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 240, 206e214. [[Bainard_et+al_IncreasingFrequencyPulsesCropRotations_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bainard%2C%20L.D.%20Navarro-Borrell%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Braun%2C%20K.%20Increasing%20the%20frequency%20of%20pulses%20in%20crop%20rotations%20reduces%20soil%20fungal%20diversity%20and%20increases%20the%20proportion%20of%20fungal%20pathotrophs%20in%20a%20semiarid%20agroecosystem%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bainard%2C%20L.D.%20Navarro-Borrell%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Braun%2C%20K.%20Increasing%20the%20frequency%20of%20pulses%20in%20crop%20rotations%20reduces%20soil%20fungal%20diversity%20and%20increases%20the%20proportion%20of%20fungal%20pathotrophs%20in%20a%20semiarid%20agroecosystem%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bainard%2C%20L.D.%20Navarro-Borrell%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Braun%2C%20K.%20Increasing%20the%20frequency%20of%20pulses%20in%20crop%20rotations%20reduces%20soil%20fungal%20diversity%20and%20increases%20the%20proportion%20of%20fungal%20pathotrophs%20in%20a%20semiarid%20agroecosystem%202017)

[^Belane_et+al_2011_a]: Belane, A.K., Asiwe, J., Dakora, F.D., 2011. Assessment of N2 fixation in 32 cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) genotypes grown in the field at Taung in South Africa, using 15N natural abundance. African Journal of Biotechnology 10, 11450e11458. [[Belane_et+al_AssessmentN2Fixation32Cowpea_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Asiwe%2C%20J.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessment%20of%20N2%20fixation%20in%2032%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20the%20field%20at%20Taung%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Asiwe%2C%20J.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessment%20of%20N2%20fixation%20in%2032%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20the%20field%20at%20Taung%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Asiwe%2C%20J.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessment%20of%20N2%20fixation%20in%2032%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20the%20field%20at%20Taung%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202011)

[^Belane_et+al_2014_a]: Belane, A.K., Pule-Meulenberg, F., Makhubedu, T.I., Dakora, F.D., 2014. Nitrogen fixation and symbiosis-induced accumulation of mineral nutrients by cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.). Crop & Pasture Science 65, 250e258. [[Belane_et+al_NitrogenFixationSymbiosisinducedAccumulationMineral_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Makhubedu%2C%20T.I.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20symbiosis-induced%20accumulation%20of%20mineral%20nutrients%20by%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Makhubedu%2C%20T.I.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20symbiosis-induced%20accumulation%20of%20mineral%20nutrients%20by%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Makhubedu%2C%20T.I.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20symbiosis-induced%20accumulation%20of%20mineral%20nutrients%20by%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L%202014)

[^Betencourt_et+al_2012_a]: Betencourt, E., Duputel, M., Colomb, B., Desclaux, D., Hinsinger, P., 2012. Intercropping promotes the ability of durum wheat and chickpea to increase rhizosphere phosphorus availability in a low P soil. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 46, 181e190. [[Betencourt_et+al_IntercroppingPromotesAbilityDurumWheat_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Betencourt%2C%20E.%20Duputel%2C%20M.%20Colomb%2C%20B.%20Desclaux%2C%20D.%20Intercropping%20promotes%20the%20ability%20of%20durum%20wheat%20and%20chickpea%20to%20increase%20rhizosphere%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20a%20low%20P%20soil%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Betencourt%2C%20E.%20Duputel%2C%20M.%20Colomb%2C%20B.%20Desclaux%2C%20D.%20Intercropping%20promotes%20the%20ability%20of%20durum%20wheat%20and%20chickpea%20to%20increase%20rhizosphere%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20a%20low%20P%20soil%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Betencourt%2C%20E.%20Duputel%2C%20M.%20Colomb%2C%20B.%20Desclaux%2C%20D.%20Intercropping%20promotes%20the%20ability%20of%20durum%20wheat%20and%20chickpea%20to%20increase%20rhizosphere%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20a%20low%20P%20soil%202012)

[^Biederbeck_et+al_2005_a]: Biederbeck, V.O., Zentener, R.P., Campbell, C.A., 2005. Soil microbial populations and activities as influenced by legume green fallow in a semiarid climate. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 37, 1775e1784. [[Biederbeck_et+al_SoilMicrobialPopulationsActivitiesInfluenced_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Biederbeck%2C%20V.O.%20Zentener%2C%20R.P.%20Campbell%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20microbial%20populations%20and%20activities%20as%20influenced%20by%20legume%20green%20fallow%20in%20a%20semiarid%20climate%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Biederbeck%2C%20V.O.%20Zentener%2C%20R.P.%20Campbell%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20microbial%20populations%20and%20activities%20as%20influenced%20by%20legume%20green%20fallow%20in%20a%20semiarid%20climate%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Biederbeck%2C%20V.O.%20Zentener%2C%20R.P.%20Campbell%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20microbial%20populations%20and%20activities%20as%20influenced%20by%20legume%20green%20fallow%20in%20a%20semiarid%20climate%202005)

[^Chen_et+al_2018_a]: Chen, J., Heiling, M., Resch, C., Mbaye, M., Gruber, R., Dercon, G., 2018. Does maize and legume crop residue mulch matter in soil organic carbon sequestration? Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 265, 123e131. [[Chen_et+al_DoesMaizeLegumeCropResidue_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20J.%20Heiling%2C%20M.%20Resch%2C%20C.%20Mbaye%2C%20M.%20Does%20maize%20and%20legume%20crop%20residue%20mulch%20matter%20in%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20sequestration%3F%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20J.%20Heiling%2C%20M.%20Resch%2C%20C.%20Mbaye%2C%20M.%20Does%20maize%20and%20legume%20crop%20residue%20mulch%20matter%20in%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20sequestration%3F%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20J.%20Heiling%2C%20M.%20Resch%2C%20C.%20Mbaye%2C%20M.%20Does%20maize%20and%20legume%20crop%20residue%20mulch%20matter%20in%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20sequestration%3F%202018)

[^Chianu_et+al_2012_a]: Chianu, J.N., Chianu, J.N., Mairura, F., 2012. Mineral fertilizers in the farming systems of sub-Saharan Africa. A review. Agronomy for Sustainable Development 32, 545e566. [[Chianu_et+al_MineralFertilizersFarmingSystemssaharan_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Mairura%2C%20F.%20Mineral%20fertilizers%20in%20the%20farming%20systems%20of%20sub-Saharan%20Africa.%20A%20review.%20Agronomy%20for%20Sustainable%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Mairura%2C%20F.%20Mineral%20fertilizers%20in%20the%20farming%20systems%20of%20sub-Saharan%20Africa.%20A%20review.%20Agronomy%20for%20Sustainable%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Chianu%2C%20J.N.%20Mairura%2C%20F.%20Mineral%20fertilizers%20in%20the%20farming%20systems%20of%20sub-Saharan%20Africa.%20A%20review.%20Agronomy%20for%20Sustainable%202012)

[^Correia_et+al_2014_a]: Correia, M.V., Pereira, L.C.R., De Almeida, L., Williams, R.L., Freach, J., Nesbitt, H., Erskine, W., 2014. Maize-mucuna (Mucuna pruriens (L.) DC) relay intercropping in the lowland tropics of Timor-Leste. Field Crops Research 156, 272e280. [[Correia_et+al_MaizemucunamucunaPrurienslDc_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Correia%2C%20M.V.%20Pereira%2C%20L.C.R.%20De%20Almeida%2C%20L.%20Williams%2C%20R.L.%20Maize-mucuna%20%28Mucuna%20pruriens%20%28L.%29%20DC%29%20relay%20intercropping%20in%20the%20lowland%20tropics%20of%20Timor-Leste%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Correia%2C%20M.V.%20Pereira%2C%20L.C.R.%20De%20Almeida%2C%20L.%20Williams%2C%20R.L.%20Maize-mucuna%20%28Mucuna%20pruriens%20%28L.%29%20DC%29%20relay%20intercropping%20in%20the%20lowland%20tropics%20of%20Timor-Leste%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Correia%2C%20M.V.%20Pereira%2C%20L.C.R.%20De%20Almeida%2C%20L.%20Williams%2C%20R.L.%20Maize-mucuna%20%28Mucuna%20pruriens%20%28L.%29%20DC%29%20relay%20intercropping%20in%20the%20lowland%20tropics%20of%20Timor-Leste%202014)

[^Coskun_et+al_2017_a]: Coskun, D., Britto, D.T., Shi, W., Kronzucker, H.J., 2017. Nitrogen transformation in modern agriculture and the role of biological nitrification inhibition. Nature Plants 3, 170e174. [[Coskun_et+al_NitrogenTransformationModernAgricultureRole_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Coskun%2C%20D.%20Britto%2C%20D.T.%20Shi%2C%20W.%20Kronzucker%2C%20H.J.%20Nitrogen%20transformation%20in%20modern%20agriculture%20and%20the%20role%20of%20biological%20nitrification%20inhibition%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Coskun%2C%20D.%20Britto%2C%20D.T.%20Shi%2C%20W.%20Kronzucker%2C%20H.J.%20Nitrogen%20transformation%20in%20modern%20agriculture%20and%20the%20role%20of%20biological%20nitrification%20inhibition%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Coskun%2C%20D.%20Britto%2C%20D.T.%20Shi%2C%20W.%20Kronzucker%2C%20H.J.%20Nitrogen%20transformation%20in%20modern%20agriculture%20and%20the%20role%20of%20biological%20nitrification%20inhibition%202017)

[^Dahlin_2010_a]: Dahlin, A.S., Stenberg, M., 2010. Cutting regime affects the amount and allocation of symbiotically fixed N in green manure leys. Plant and Soil 331, 401e412. [[Dahlin_CuttingRegimeAffectsAmountAllocation_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dahlin%2C%20A.S.%20Stenberg%2C%20M.%20Cutting%20regime%20affects%20the%20amount%20and%20allocation%20of%20symbiotically%20fixed%20N%20in%20green%20manure%20leys%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dahlin%2C%20A.S.%20Stenberg%2C%20M.%20Cutting%20regime%20affects%20the%20amount%20and%20allocation%20of%20symbiotically%20fixed%20N%20in%20green%20manure%20leys%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dahlin%2C%20A.S.%20Stenberg%2C%20M.%20Cutting%20regime%20affects%20the%20amount%20and%20allocation%20of%20symbiotically%20fixed%20N%20in%20green%20manure%20leys%202010)

[^Dai_et+al_2018_a]: Dai, J., Qiu, W., Wang, N., Nakanishi, H., Zuo, Y., 2018. Comparative transcriptomic analysis of the roots of intercropped peanut and maize reveals novel insights into peanut iron nutrition. Plant Physiology and Biochemistry 127, 516e524. [[Dai_et+al_ComparativeTranscriptomicAnalysisRootsIntercropped_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dai%2C%20J.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Wang%2C%20N.%20Nakanishi%2C%20H.%20Comparative%20transcriptomic%20analysis%20of%20the%20roots%20of%20intercropped%20peanut%20and%20maize%20reveals%20novel%20insights%20into%20peanut%20iron%20nutrition%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dai%2C%20J.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Wang%2C%20N.%20Nakanishi%2C%20H.%20Comparative%20transcriptomic%20analysis%20of%20the%20roots%20of%20intercropped%20peanut%20and%20maize%20reveals%20novel%20insights%20into%20peanut%20iron%20nutrition%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dai%2C%20J.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Wang%2C%20N.%20Nakanishi%2C%20H.%20Comparative%20transcriptomic%20analysis%20of%20the%20roots%20of%20intercropped%20peanut%20and%20maize%20reveals%20novel%20insights%20into%20peanut%20iron%20nutrition%202018)

[^Da_et+al_2017_a]: Da Silva, J.R., Alexandre, A., Brigido, C., Oliveira, S., 2017. Can stress response genes be used to improve the symbiotic performance of rhizobia? AIMS Microbiology 3, 365e382. [[Da_et+al_StressResponseGenesUsedImprove_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Da%20Silva%2C%20J.R.%20Alexandre%2C%20A.%20Brigido%2C%20C.%20Oliveira%2C%20S.%20Can%20stress%20response%20genes%20be%20used%20to%20improve%20the%20symbiotic%20performance%20of%20rhizobia%3F%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Da%20Silva%2C%20J.R.%20Alexandre%2C%20A.%20Brigido%2C%20C.%20Oliveira%2C%20S.%20Can%20stress%20response%20genes%20be%20used%20to%20improve%20the%20symbiotic%20performance%20of%20rhizobia%3F%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Da%20Silva%2C%20J.R.%20Alexandre%2C%20A.%20Brigido%2C%20C.%20Oliveira%2C%20S.%20Can%20stress%20response%20genes%20be%20used%20to%20improve%20the%20symbiotic%20performance%20of%20rhizobia%3F%202017)

[^Dakora_2002_a]: Dakora, F.D., Philips, D., 2002. Root exudates as mediators of mineral acquisition in lownutrient environments. Plant and Soil 245, 35e47. [[Dakora_RootExudatesMediatorsMineralAcquisition_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dakora%20FD%20Philips%20D%202002%20Root%20exudates%20as%20mediators%20of%20mineral%20acquisition%20in%20lownutrient%20environments%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20245%2035e47) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dakora%20FD%20Philips%20D%202002%20Root%20exudates%20as%20mediators%20of%20mineral%20acquisition%20in%20lownutrient%20environments%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20245%2035e47) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dakora%20FD%20Philips%20D%202002%20Root%20exudates%20as%20mediators%20of%20mineral%20acquisition%20in%20lownutrient%20environments%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20245%2035e47)

[^Darch_et+al_2018_a]: Darch, T., Giles, C.D., Blackwell, M.S.A., et al., 2018. Inter-and intra-species intercropping of barley cultivars and legume species, as affected by soil phosphorus availability. Plant and Soil 427, 125e138. [[Darch_et+al_InterIntraspeciesIntercroppingBarleyCultivars_2018]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Darch%2C%20T.%20Giles%2C%20C.D.%20Blackwell%2C%20M.S.A.%20Inter-and%20intra-species%20intercropping%20of%20barley%20cultivars%20and%20legume%20species%2C%20as%20affected%20by%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20427%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Darch%2C%20T.%20Giles%2C%20C.D.%20Blackwell%2C%20M.S.A.%20Inter-and%20intra-species%20intercropping%20of%20barley%20cultivars%20and%20legume%20species%2C%20as%20affected%20by%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20427%202018) 

[^Dwivedi_et+al_2015_a]: Dwivedi, A., Dev, I., Kumar, V., Yadav, R.S., Yadav, M., Gupta, D., Singh, A., Tomar, S.S., 2015. Potential role of maize-legume intercropping systems to improve soil fertility status under smallholder farming systems for sustainable agriculture in India. International Journal of Life Sciences Biotechnology and Pharma Research 4, 145. [[Dwivedi_et+al_PotentialRoleMaizelegumeIntercroppingSystems_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dwivedi%2C%20A.%20Dev%2C%20I.%20Kumar%2C%20V.%20Yadav%2C%20R.S.%20Potential%20role%20of%20maize-legume%20intercropping%20systems%20to%20improve%20soil%20fertility%20status%20under%20smallholder%20farming%20systems%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%20in%20India%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dwivedi%2C%20A.%20Dev%2C%20I.%20Kumar%2C%20V.%20Yadav%2C%20R.S.%20Potential%20role%20of%20maize-legume%20intercropping%20systems%20to%20improve%20soil%20fertility%20status%20under%20smallholder%20farming%20systems%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%20in%20India%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dwivedi%2C%20A.%20Dev%2C%20I.%20Kumar%2C%20V.%20Yadav%2C%20R.S.%20Potential%20role%20of%20maize-legume%20intercropping%20systems%20to%20improve%20soil%20fertility%20status%20under%20smallholder%20farming%20systems%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%20in%20India%202015)

[^Egamberdieva_et+al_2018_a]: Egamberdieva, D., Jabborova, D., Wirth, S.J., Alam, P., Alyemeni, M.N., Ahmad, P., 2018. Interactive effects of nutrients and Bradyrhizobium japonicum on the growth and root architecture of soybean (Glycine max L.). Frontiers in Microbiology. https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01000. [[Egamberdieva_et+al_InteractiveEffectsNutrientsBradyrhizobiumJaponicum_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01000)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01000)

[^Erisman_et+al_2011_a]: Erisman, J.W., Galloway, J.N., Seitzinger, S., Bleeker, A., Butterbach-Bahl, K., 2011. Reactive nitrogen in the environment and its effect on climate change. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability 3, 281e290. [[Erisman_et+al_ReactiveNitrogenEnvironmentEffectClimate_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Erisman%2C%20J.W.%20Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Bleeker%2C%20A.%20Reactive%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20environment%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20climate%20change%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Erisman%2C%20J.W.%20Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Bleeker%2C%20A.%20Reactive%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20environment%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20climate%20change%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Erisman%2C%20J.W.%20Galloway%2C%20J.N.%20Seitzinger%2C%20S.%20Bleeker%2C%20A.%20Reactive%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20environment%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20climate%20change%202011)

[^Foyer_et+al_2016_a]: Foyer, C.H., Lam, H.M., Nguyen, H.T., et al., 2016. Neglecting legumes has compromised human health and sustainable food production. Nature Plants 2. https://doi.org/10.1038/nplants.2016.112. [[Foyer_et+al_NeglectingLegumesCompromisedHumanHealth_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/nplants.2016.112)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/nplants.2016.112)

[^Franke_et+al_2018_a]: Franke, A.C., van den Brand, G.J., Vanlauwe, B., Giller, K.E., 2018. Sustainable intensification through rotations with grain legumes in Sub-Saharan Africa: a review. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 261, 172e185. [[Franke_et+al_SustainableIntensificationThroughRotationsWith_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Franke%2C%20A.C.%20van%20den%20Brand%2C%20G.J.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Sustainable%20intensification%20through%20rotations%20with%20grain%20legumes%20in%20Sub-Saharan%20Africa%3A%20a%20review%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Franke%2C%20A.C.%20van%20den%20Brand%2C%20G.J.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Sustainable%20intensification%20through%20rotations%20with%20grain%20legumes%20in%20Sub-Saharan%20Africa%3A%20a%20review%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Franke%2C%20A.C.%20van%20den%20Brand%2C%20G.J.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Sustainable%20intensification%20through%20rotations%20with%20grain%20legumes%20in%20Sub-Saharan%20Africa%3A%20a%20review%202018)

[^Gao_et+al_2017_a]: Gao, D., Wang, X., Fu, S., Zhao, J., 2017. Legume plants enhance the resistance of soil to ecosystem disturbance. Frontiers of Plant Science 8, 1295. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01295. [[Gao_et+al_LegumePlantsEnhanceResistanceSoil_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01295)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2017.01295)

[^Getachew_et+al_2017_a]: Getachew, Z., Abera, G., Beyene, S., 2017. Rhizobium inoculation and sulphur fertilizer improved yield nutrients uptake and protein quality of soybean (Glycine max L.) varieties on Nitisols of Assosa area, Western Ethiopia. African Journal of Plant Science 11, 123e132. [[Getachew_et+al_RhizobiumInoculationSulphurFertilizerImproved_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Getachew%2C%20Z.%20Abera%2C%20G.%20Beyene%2C%20S.%20Rhizobium%20inoculation%20and%20sulphur%20fertilizer%20improved%20yield%20nutrients%20uptake%20and%20protein%20quality%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20L.%29%20varieties%20on%20Nitisols%20of%20Assosa%20area%2C%20Western%20Ethiopia%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Getachew%2C%20Z.%20Abera%2C%20G.%20Beyene%2C%20S.%20Rhizobium%20inoculation%20and%20sulphur%20fertilizer%20improved%20yield%20nutrients%20uptake%20and%20protein%20quality%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20L.%29%20varieties%20on%20Nitisols%20of%20Assosa%20area%2C%20Western%20Ethiopia%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Getachew%2C%20Z.%20Abera%2C%20G.%20Beyene%2C%20S.%20Rhizobium%20inoculation%20and%20sulphur%20fertilizer%20improved%20yield%20nutrients%20uptake%20and%20protein%20quality%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20L.%29%20varieties%20on%20Nitisols%20of%20Assosa%20area%2C%20Western%20Ethiopia%202017)

[^Ghosh_et+al_2012_a]: Ghosh, P.K., Venkatesh, M.S., Hazra, K.K., Kumar, N., 2012. Long-term effect of pulses and nutrient management on soil organic carbon dynamics and sustainability on an inceptisol of Indo-Gangetic Plains of India. Experimental Agriculture 48, 473e487. [[Ghosh_et+al_LongtermEffectPulsesNutrientManagement_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ghosh%2C%20P.K.%20Venkatesh%2C%20M.S.%20Hazra%2C%20K.K.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20Long-term%20effect%20of%20pulses%20and%20nutrient%20management%20on%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20dynamics%20and%20sustainability%20on%20an%20inceptisol%20of%20Indo-Gangetic%20Plains%20of%20India%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ghosh%2C%20P.K.%20Venkatesh%2C%20M.S.%20Hazra%2C%20K.K.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20Long-term%20effect%20of%20pulses%20and%20nutrient%20management%20on%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20dynamics%20and%20sustainability%20on%20an%20inceptisol%20of%20Indo-Gangetic%20Plains%20of%20India%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ghosh%2C%20P.K.%20Venkatesh%2C%20M.S.%20Hazra%2C%20K.K.%20Kumar%2C%20N.%20Long-term%20effect%20of%20pulses%20and%20nutrient%20management%20on%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20dynamics%20and%20sustainability%20on%20an%20inceptisol%20of%20Indo-Gangetic%20Plains%20of%20India%202012)

[^Gonzalez-Chavez_et+al_2010_a]: Gonzalez-Chavez, M.C., Aitkenhead-Peterson, J.A., Gentry, T.J., Zuberer, D., Hons, F., Loeppeert, R., 2010. Soil microbial community, C, N, and P responses to long-term tillage and crop rotation. Soil and Tillage Research 106, 285e293. [[Gonzalez-Chavez_et+al_SoilMicrobialCommunity_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gonzalez-Chavez%2C%20M.C.%20Aitkenhead-Peterson%2C%20J.A.%20Gentry%2C%20T.J.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Soil%20microbial%20community%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gonzalez-Chavez%2C%20M.C.%20Aitkenhead-Peterson%2C%20J.A.%20Gentry%2C%20T.J.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Soil%20microbial%20community%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gonzalez-Chavez%2C%20M.C.%20Aitkenhead-Peterson%2C%20J.A.%20Gentry%2C%20T.J.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Soil%20microbial%20community%202010)

[^Gregorich_et+al_2000_a]: Gregorich, E.G., Liang, B.C., Drury, C.F., Mackenzie, A.F., McGill, W.B., 2000. Elucidation of the source and turnover of water soluble and microbial biomass carbon in agricultural soils. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 32 (5), 581e587. [[Gregorich_et+al_ElucidationSourceTurnoverWaterSoluble_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gregorich%2C%20E.G.%20Liang%2C%20B.C.%20Drury%2C%20C.F.%20Mackenzie%2C%20A.F.%20Elucidation%20of%20the%20source%20and%20turnover%20of%20water%20soluble%20and%20microbial%20biomass%20carbon%20in%20agricultural%20soils%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gregorich%2C%20E.G.%20Liang%2C%20B.C.%20Drury%2C%20C.F.%20Mackenzie%2C%20A.F.%20Elucidation%20of%20the%20source%20and%20turnover%20of%20water%20soluble%20and%20microbial%20biomass%20carbon%20in%20agricultural%20soils%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gregorich%2C%20E.G.%20Liang%2C%20B.C.%20Drury%2C%20C.F.%20Mackenzie%2C%20A.F.%20Elucidation%20of%20the%20source%20and%20turnover%20of%20water%20soluble%20and%20microbial%20biomass%20carbon%20in%20agricultural%20soils%202000)

[^Guo_et+al_2014_a]: Guo, X., Xiong, H., Shen, H., Qiu, W., Ji, C., Zhang, Z., Zuo, Y., 2014. Dynamics in the rhizosphere and iron-uptake gene expression in peanut induced by intercropping with maize: role in improving iron nutrition in peanut. Plant Physiology and Biochemistry 76, 36e43. [[Guo_et+al_DynamicsRhizosphereIronuptakeGeneExpression_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guo%2C%20X.%20Xiong%2C%20H.%20Shen%2C%20H.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Dynamics%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20iron-uptake%20gene%20expression%20in%20peanut%20induced%20by%20intercropping%20with%20maize%3A%20role%20in%20improving%20iron%20nutrition%20in%20peanut%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guo%2C%20X.%20Xiong%2C%20H.%20Shen%2C%20H.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Dynamics%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20iron-uptake%20gene%20expression%20in%20peanut%20induced%20by%20intercropping%20with%20maize%3A%20role%20in%20improving%20iron%20nutrition%20in%20peanut%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guo%2C%20X.%20Xiong%2C%20H.%20Shen%2C%20H.%20Qiu%2C%20W.%20Dynamics%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20iron-uptake%20gene%20expression%20in%20peanut%20induced%20by%20intercropping%20with%20maize%3A%20role%20in%20improving%20iron%20nutrition%20in%20peanut%202014)

[^Hallama_et+al_2019_a]: Hallama, M., Pekrun, C., Lambers, H., Kandeler, E., 2019. Hidden miners-the roles of cover crops and soil microorganisms in phosphorus cycling through agroecosystems. Plant and Soil 434, 7e45. [[Hallama_et+al_HiddenMinersRolesCoverCrops_2019]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hallama%2C%20M.%20Pekrun%2C%20C.%20Lambers%2C%20H.%20Kandeler%2C%20E.%20Hidden%20miners-the%20roles%20of%20cover%20crops%20and%20soil%20microorganisms%20in%20phosphorus%20cycling%20through%20agroecosystems.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20434%202019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hallama%2C%20M.%20Pekrun%2C%20C.%20Lambers%2C%20H.%20Kandeler%2C%20E.%20Hidden%20miners-the%20roles%20of%20cover%20crops%20and%20soil%20microorganisms%20in%20phosphorus%20cycling%20through%20agroecosystems.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20434%202019) 

[^He_et+al_2003_a]: He, X., Critchley, C., Bledsoe, C., 2003. Nitrogen transfer within and between plants through common mycorrhizal networks (CMNs). Critical Reviews in Plant Sciences 22, 531e567. [[He_et+al_NitrogenTransferWithinBetweenPlants_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=He%2C%20X.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Critical%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=He%2C%20X.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Critical%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=He%2C%20X.%20Critchley%2C%20C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20within%20and%20between%20plants%20through%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20%28CMNs%29.%20Critical%202003)

[^Hoffmann_et+al_2018_a]: Hoffmann, M.P., Odhiambo, J.J.O., Koch, M., Ayisi, K.K., Zhao, G., Soler, A., Rotter, R., 2018. Exploring adaptations of groundnut cropping to prevailing climate variability and extremes in Limpopo Province, South Africa. Field Crops Research 219, 1e13. [[Hoffmann_et+al_ExploringAdaptationsGroundnutCroppingPrevailing_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hoffmann%2C%20M.P.%20Odhiambo%2C%20J.J.O.%20Koch%2C%20M.%20Ayisi%2C%20K.K.%20Exploring%20adaptations%20of%20groundnut%20cropping%20to%20prevailing%20climate%20variability%20and%20extremes%20in%20Limpopo%20Province%2C%20South%20Africa%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoffmann%2C%20M.P.%20Odhiambo%2C%20J.J.O.%20Koch%2C%20M.%20Ayisi%2C%20K.K.%20Exploring%20adaptations%20of%20groundnut%20cropping%20to%20prevailing%20climate%20variability%20and%20extremes%20in%20Limpopo%20Province%2C%20South%20Africa%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hoffmann%2C%20M.P.%20Odhiambo%2C%20J.J.O.%20Koch%2C%20M.%20Ayisi%2C%20K.K.%20Exploring%20adaptations%20of%20groundnut%20cropping%20to%20prevailing%20climate%20variability%20and%20extremes%20in%20Limpopo%20Province%2C%20South%20Africa%202018)

[^Houshmandfr_et+al_2019_a]: Houshmandfr, A., Ota, N., Siddique, K.H.M., Tausz, M., 2019. Crop rotation options for dryland agriculture: an assessment of grain yield response in cool-season grain legumes and canola to variation in rainfall totals. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 275, 277e282. [[Houshmandfr_et+al_CropRotationOptionsDrylandAgriculture_2019]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Houshmandfr%2C%20A.%20Ota%2C%20N.%20Siddique%2C%20K.H.M.%20Tausz%2C%20M.%20Crop%20rotation%20options%20for%20dryland%20agriculture%3A%20an%20assessment%20of%20grain%20yield%20response%20in%20cool-season%20grain%20legumes%20and%20canola%20to%20variation%20in%20rainfall%20totals.%20Agricultural%20and%20Forest%202019) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Houshmandfr%2C%20A.%20Ota%2C%20N.%20Siddique%2C%20K.H.M.%20Tausz%2C%20M.%20Crop%20rotation%20options%20for%20dryland%20agriculture%3A%20an%20assessment%20of%20grain%20yield%20response%20in%20cool-season%20grain%20legumes%20and%20canola%20to%20variation%20in%20rainfall%20totals.%20Agricultural%20and%20Forest%202019) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Houshmandfr%2C%20A.%20Ota%2C%20N.%20Siddique%2C%20K.H.M.%20Tausz%2C%20M.%20Crop%20rotation%20options%20for%20dryland%20agriculture%3A%20an%20assessment%20of%20grain%20yield%20response%20in%20cool-season%20grain%20legumes%20and%20canola%20to%20variation%20in%20rainfall%20totals.%20Agricultural%20and%20Forest%202019)

[^Htwe_et+al_2019_a]: Htwe, A.Z., Moh, S.M., Soe, K.M., Moe, K., Yamakawa, T., 2019. Effects of biofertilizer produced from Bradyrhizobium and Streptomyces griseoflavus on plant growth, nodulation, nitrogen fixation, nutrient uptake, and seed yield of mung bean, cowpea, and soybean. Agronomy. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy9020077. [[Htwe_et+al_EffectsBiofertilizerProducedFromBradyrhizobium_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy9020077)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/agronomy9020077)

[^Inal_et+al_2007_a]: Inal, A., Gunes, A., Zhang, F., Cakmak, I., 2007. Peanut/maize intercropping induced changes in rhizosphere and nutrient concentrations in shoots. Plant Physiology and Biochemistry 45, 350e356. [[Inal_et+al_PeanutmaizeIntercroppingInducedChangesRhizosphere_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Inal%2C%20A.%20Gunes%2C%20A.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Cakmak%2C%20I.%20Peanut/maize%20intercropping%20induced%20changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20and%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20shoots%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Inal%2C%20A.%20Gunes%2C%20A.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Cakmak%2C%20I.%20Peanut/maize%20intercropping%20induced%20changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20and%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20shoots%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Inal%2C%20A.%20Gunes%2C%20A.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Cakmak%2C%20I.%20Peanut/maize%20intercropping%20induced%20changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20and%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20shoots%202007)

[^Kanu_2012_a]: Kanu, S.A., Dakora, F.D., 2012. Symbiotic nitrogen contribution of root-nodule bacteria nodulating Psoralea species in the Cape Fynbos, South Africa. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 54, 68e76. [[Kanu_SymbioticNitrogenContributionRootnoduleBacteria_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kanu%2C%20S.A.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20nitrogen%20contribution%20of%20root-nodule%20bacteria%20nodulating%20Psoralea%20species%20in%20the%20Cape%20Fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kanu%2C%20S.A.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20nitrogen%20contribution%20of%20root-nodule%20bacteria%20nodulating%20Psoralea%20species%20in%20the%20Cape%20Fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kanu%2C%20S.A.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20nitrogen%20contribution%20of%20root-nodule%20bacteria%20nodulating%20Psoralea%20species%20in%20the%20Cape%20Fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202012)

[^Kerman_et+al_2018_a]: Kerman, M., Franke, A.C., Adjei-Nsiah, S., Ahiabor, B.D.K., Abaidoo, R.C., Giller, K.E., 2018. N2-fixation and N contribution by grain legumes under different soil fertility status and cropping systems in the Guinea savannah of northern Ghana. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 261, 201e210. [[Kerman_et+al_2018N2fixationNContributionGrain_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kerman%20M%20Franke%20AC%20AdjeiNsiah%20S%20Ahiabor%20BDK%20Abaidoo%20RC%20Giller%20KE%202018%20N2fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%20grain%20legumes%20under%20different%20soil%20fertility%20status%20and%20cropping%20systems%20in%20the%20Guinea%20savannah%20of%20northern%20Ghana%20Agriculture%20Ecosystems%20%20Environment%20261%20201e210) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kerman%20M%20Franke%20AC%20AdjeiNsiah%20S%20Ahiabor%20BDK%20Abaidoo%20RC%20Giller%20KE%202018%20N2fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%20grain%20legumes%20under%20different%20soil%20fertility%20status%20and%20cropping%20systems%20in%20the%20Guinea%20savannah%20of%20northern%20Ghana%20Agriculture%20Ecosystems%20%20Environment%20261%20201e210) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kerman%20M%20Franke%20AC%20AdjeiNsiah%20S%20Ahiabor%20BDK%20Abaidoo%20RC%20Giller%20KE%202018%20N2fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%20grain%20legumes%20under%20different%20soil%20fertility%20status%20and%20cropping%20systems%20in%20the%20Guinea%20savannah%20of%20northern%20Ghana%20Agriculture%20Ecosystems%20%20Environment%20261%20201e210)

[^Kone_et+al_2008_a]: Kone, A.W., Tondoh, J.E., Angui, P.K., Bernhard-Reversat, F., Loranger-Merciris, G., Brunet, D., Bredoumi, S.T., 2008. Is soil quality improvement by legume cover crops a function of the initial soil chemical characteristics? Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems 82, 89e105. [[Kone_et+al_SoilQualityImprovementLegumeCover_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kone%2C%20A.W.%20Tondoh%2C%20J.E.%20Angui%2C%20P.K.%20Bernhard-Reversat%2C%20F.%20Is%20soil%20quality%20improvement%20by%20legume%20cover%20crops%20a%20function%20of%20the%20initial%20soil%20chemical%20characteristics%3F%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kone%2C%20A.W.%20Tondoh%2C%20J.E.%20Angui%2C%20P.K.%20Bernhard-Reversat%2C%20F.%20Is%20soil%20quality%20improvement%20by%20legume%20cover%20crops%20a%20function%20of%20the%20initial%20soil%20chemical%20characteristics%3F%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kone%2C%20A.W.%20Tondoh%2C%20J.E.%20Angui%2C%20P.K.%20Bernhard-Reversat%2C%20F.%20Is%20soil%20quality%20improvement%20by%20legume%20cover%20crops%20a%20function%20of%20the%20initial%20soil%20chemical%20characteristics%3F%202008)

[^Khoshgoftarmanesh_et+al_2017_a]: Khoshgoftarmanesh, A.H., Norouzi, M., Afyuni, M., Schulin, R., 2017. Zinc biofortification of wheat through preceding crop residue incorporation into the soil. European Journal of Agronomy 89, 131e139. [[Khoshgoftarmanesh_et+al_ZincBiofortificationWheatThroughPreceding_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Schulin%2C%20R.%20Zinc%20biofortification%20of%20wheat%20through%20preceding%20crop%20residue%20incorporation%20into%20the%20soil%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Schulin%2C%20R.%20Zinc%20biofortification%20of%20wheat%20through%20preceding%20crop%20residue%20incorporation%20into%20the%20soil%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Schulin%2C%20R.%20Zinc%20biofortification%20of%20wheat%20through%20preceding%20crop%20residue%20incorporation%20into%20the%20soil%202017)

[^Kyei-Boahen_et+al_2017_a]: Kyei-Boahen, S., Savala, C.E.N., Chikoye, D., Abaidoo, R., 2017. Growth and yield response of cowpea to inoculation and phosphorus fertilization in different environments. Frontiers of Plant Science. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.00646. [[Kyei-Boahen_et+al_GrowthYieldResponseCowpeaInoculation_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.00646)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2017.00646)

[^Lakhraj-Govender_et+al_2017_a]: Lakhraj-Govender, R., Grab, S., Ndebele, N.E., 2017. A homogenized long-term temperature record for the Western Cape Province in South Africa. International Journal of Climatology 37, 2337e2353. [[Lakhraj-Govender_et+al_HomogenizedLongtermTemperatureRecordWestern_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lakhraj-Govender%2C%20R.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ndebele%2C%20N.E.%20A%20homogenized%20long-term%20temperature%20record%20for%20the%20Western%20Cape%20Province%20in%20South%20Africa%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lakhraj-Govender%2C%20R.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ndebele%2C%20N.E.%20A%20homogenized%20long-term%20temperature%20record%20for%20the%20Western%20Cape%20Province%20in%20South%20Africa%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lakhraj-Govender%2C%20R.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ndebele%2C%20N.E.%20A%20homogenized%20long-term%20temperature%20record%20for%20the%20Western%20Cape%20Province%20in%20South%20Africa%202017)

[^Lal_2017_a]: Lal, R., 2017. Improving soil health and human protein nutrition by pulses-based cropping systems. Advances in Agronomy 145, 167e204. [[Lal_ImprovingSoilHealthHumanProtein_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lal%2C%20R.%20Improving%20soil%20health%20and%20human%20protein%20nutrition%20by%20pulses-based%20cropping%20systems%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lal%2C%20R.%20Improving%20soil%20health%20and%20human%20protein%20nutrition%20by%20pulses-based%20cropping%20systems%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lal%2C%20R.%20Improving%20soil%20health%20and%20human%20protein%20nutrition%20by%20pulses-based%20cropping%20systems%202017)

[^Lalati_et+al_2013_a]: Lalati, M., Pansu, M., Drevon, J.J., Ounane, S.M., 2013. Advantage of intercropping maize (Zea mays L.) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) on yield and nitrogen uptake in Northeast Algeria. International Journal of Research in Applied Sciences 1, 1e7. [[Lalati_et+al_AdvantageIntercroppingMaizezeaMays_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lalati%2C%20M.%20Pansu%2C%20M.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Ounane%2C%20S.M.%20Advantage%20of%20intercropping%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20and%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20on%20yield%20and%20nitrogen%20uptake%20in%20Northeast%20Algeria%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lalati%2C%20M.%20Pansu%2C%20M.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Ounane%2C%20S.M.%20Advantage%20of%20intercropping%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20and%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20on%20yield%20and%20nitrogen%20uptake%20in%20Northeast%20Algeria%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lalati%2C%20M.%20Pansu%2C%20M.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Ounane%2C%20S.M.%20Advantage%20of%20intercropping%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20and%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20on%20yield%20and%20nitrogen%20uptake%20in%20Northeast%20Algeria%202013)

[^Latz_et+al_2012_a]: Latz, E., Eisenhauer, N., Rall, B.C., Allan, E., Roscher, C., Scheu, S., Jousset, A., 2012. Plant diversity improves protection against soil-borne pathogens by fostering antagonistic bacterial communities. Journal of Ecology 100, 597e604. [[Latz_et+al_PlantDiversityImprovesProtectionAgainst_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Latz%2C%20E.%20Eisenhauer%2C%20N.%20Rall%2C%20B.C.%20Allan%2C%20E.%20Plant%20diversity%20improves%20protection%20against%20soil-borne%20pathogens%20by%20fostering%20antagonistic%20bacterial%20communities%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Latz%2C%20E.%20Eisenhauer%2C%20N.%20Rall%2C%20B.C.%20Allan%2C%20E.%20Plant%20diversity%20improves%20protection%20against%20soil-borne%20pathogens%20by%20fostering%20antagonistic%20bacterial%20communities%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Latz%2C%20E.%20Eisenhauer%2C%20N.%20Rall%2C%20B.C.%20Allan%2C%20E.%20Plant%20diversity%20improves%20protection%20against%20soil-borne%20pathogens%20by%20fostering%20antagonistic%20bacterial%20communities%202012)

[^Latz_et+al_2015_a]: Latz, E., Eisenhauer, N., Rall, B.C., Scheu, S., Jousset, A., 2015. Plant community composition and the pathogen-suppressive potential of soils. Scientific Reports. https://doi.org/10.1038/srep23584. [[Latz_et+al_PlantCommunityCompositionPathogensuppressivePotential_2015]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep23584)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/srep23584)

[^Li_et+al_2018_a]: Li, Q., Chen, J., Wu, L., Luo, X., Li, N., Arafat, Y., Lin, S., Lin, W., 2018. Belowground interactions impact the soil bacterial community, soil fertility and crop yield in maize/peanut intercropping systems. International Journal of Molecular Sciences. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms19020622. [[Li_et+al_BelowgroundInteractionsImpactSoilBacterial_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms19020622)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/ijms19020622)

[^Lupwayi_2007_a]: Lupwayi, N.Z., Kennedy, A.C., 2007. Grain legumes in Northern Great Plains: impacts on selected biological soil processes. Agronomy Journal 99, 1700e1709. [[Lupwayi_GrainLegumesNorthernGreatPlains_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lupwayi%2C%20N.Z.%20Kennedy%2C%20A.C.%20Grain%20legumes%20in%20Northern%20Great%20Plains%3A%20impacts%20on%20selected%20biological%20soil%20processes%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lupwayi%2C%20N.Z.%20Kennedy%2C%20A.C.%20Grain%20legumes%20in%20Northern%20Great%20Plains%3A%20impacts%20on%20selected%20biological%20soil%20processes%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lupwayi%2C%20N.Z.%20Kennedy%2C%20A.C.%20Grain%20legumes%20in%20Northern%20Great%20Plains%3A%20impacts%20on%20selected%20biological%20soil%20processes%202007)

[^Magdoff_2004_a]: Magdoff, F., Weil, R.R. (Eds.), 2004. Soil Organic Matter in Sustainable Agriculture. CRC Press. [[Magdoff_SoilOrganicMatterSustainableAgriculture_2004]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Magdoff%20F%20Weil%20RR%20Eds%202004%20Soil%20Organic%20Matter%20in%20Sustainable%20Agriculture%20CRC%20Press) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Magdoff%20F%20Weil%20RR%20Eds%202004%20Soil%20Organic%20Matter%20in%20Sustainable%20Agriculture%20CRC%20Press) 

[^Maiga_2019_a]: Maiga, A., Alhameid, A., Singh, S., Polat, A., Singh, J., Kumar, S., Osborne, S., 2019a. Responses of soil organic carbon, aggregate stability, carbon and nitrogen fractions to 15 and 24 years of no-till diversified crop rotations. Soil Research 57, 149e157. [[Maiga_ResponsesSoilOrganicCarbonAggregate_2019]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maiga%20A%20Alhameid%20A%20Singh%20S%20Polat%20A%20Singh%20J%20Kumar%20S%20Osborne%20S%202019a%20Responses%20of%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20aggregate%20stability%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20fractions%20to%2015%20and%2024%20years%20of%20notill%20diversified%20crop%20rotations%20Soil%20Research%2057%20149e157) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maiga%20A%20Alhameid%20A%20Singh%20S%20Polat%20A%20Singh%20J%20Kumar%20S%20Osborne%20S%202019a%20Responses%20of%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20aggregate%20stability%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20fractions%20to%2015%20and%2024%20years%20of%20notill%20diversified%20crop%20rotations%20Soil%20Research%2057%20149e157) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maiga%20A%20Alhameid%20A%20Singh%20S%20Polat%20A%20Singh%20J%20Kumar%20S%20Osborne%20S%202019a%20Responses%20of%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20aggregate%20stability%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20fractions%20to%2015%20and%2024%20years%20of%20notill%20diversified%20crop%20rotations%20Soil%20Research%2057%20149e157)

[^Maiga_et+al_2019_a]: Maiga, A., Alhameid, A., Singh, S., Polat, A., Singh, J., Kumar, S., Osborne, S., 2019b. Responses of soil organic carbon, aggregate stability, carbon and nitrogen fractions to 15 and 24 years of no-till diversified crop rotations. Soil Research. https://doi.org/10.1071/ SR18068. [[Maiga_et+al_ResponsesSoilOrganicCarbonAggregate_2019]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1071/SR18068)  

[^Makoi_et+al_2010_a]: Makoi, J.H.J.R., Chimphango, S.B.M., Dakora, F.D., 2010. Elevated levels of acid and alkaline phosphatase activity in roots and rhizosphere of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) genotypes grown in mixed culture and at different densities with sorghum (Sorghum bicolour L. Moench). Crops and Pasture Science 61, 279e286. [[Makoi_et+al_ElevatedLevelsAcidAlkalinePhosphatase_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Makoi%2C%20J.H.J.R.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.M.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Elevated%20levels%20of%20acid%20and%20alkaline%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%20%28Sorghum%20bicolour%20L%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Makoi%2C%20J.H.J.R.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.M.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Elevated%20levels%20of%20acid%20and%20alkaline%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%20%28Sorghum%20bicolour%20L%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Makoi%2C%20J.H.J.R.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.M.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Elevated%20levels%20of%20acid%20and%20alkaline%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%20%28Sorghum%20bicolour%20L%202010)

[^Makoi_et+al_2014_a]: Makoi, J.H., Chimphango, S.B., Dakora, F.D., 2014. Changes in rhizosphere concentration of mineral elements as affected by differences in root uptake and plant growth of five cowpea genotypes grown in mixed culture and at different densities with sorghum. American Journal of Experimental Agriculture 4, 193. [[Makoi_et+al_ChangesRhizosphereConcentrationMineralElements_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Makoi%2C%20J.H.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20concentration%20of%20mineral%20elements%20as%20affected%20by%20differences%20in%20root%20uptake%20and%20plant%20growth%20of%20five%20cowpea%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Makoi%2C%20J.H.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20concentration%20of%20mineral%20elements%20as%20affected%20by%20differences%20in%20root%20uptake%20and%20plant%20growth%20of%20five%20cowpea%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Makoi%2C%20J.H.%20Chimphango%2C%20S.B.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Changes%20in%20rhizosphere%20concentration%20of%20mineral%20elements%20as%20affected%20by%20differences%20in%20root%20uptake%20and%20plant%20growth%20of%20five%20cowpea%20genotypes%20grown%20in%20mixed%20culture%20and%20at%20different%20densities%20with%20sorghum%202014)

[^Maltais-Landry_2015_a]: Maltais-Landry, G., 2015. Legumes have a greater effect on rhizosphere properties (pH, organic acids and enzyme activity) but a smaller impact on soil P compared to other cover crops. Plant and Soil 394, 139e154. [[Maltais-Landry_LegumesHaveGreaterEffectRhizosphere_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maltais-Landry%2C%20G.%20Legumes%20have%20a%20greater%20effect%20on%20rhizosphere%20properties%20%28pH%2C%20organic%20acids%20and%20enzyme%20activity%29%20but%20a%20smaller%20impact%20on%20soil%20P%20compared%20to%20other%20cover%20crops.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20394%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maltais-Landry%2C%20G.%20Legumes%20have%20a%20greater%20effect%20on%20rhizosphere%20properties%20%28pH%2C%20organic%20acids%20and%20enzyme%20activity%29%20but%20a%20smaller%20impact%20on%20soil%20P%20compared%20to%20other%20cover%20crops.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20394%202015) 

[^Maluleke_2017_a]: Maluleke, W., Mokwena, R.J., 2017. The effect of climate change on rural livestock farming: case study of Giyani policing area, Republic of South Africa. South African Journal of Agricultural Extension 45, 26e40. [[Maluleke_EffectClimateChangeRuralLivestock_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maluleke%2C%20W.%20Mokwena%2C%20R.J.%20The%20effect%20of%20climate%20change%20on%20rural%20livestock%20farming%3A%20case%20study%20of%20Giyani%20policing%20area%2C%20Republic%20of%20South%20Africa%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maluleke%2C%20W.%20Mokwena%2C%20R.J.%20The%20effect%20of%20climate%20change%20on%20rural%20livestock%20farming%3A%20case%20study%20of%20Giyani%20policing%20area%2C%20Republic%20of%20South%20Africa%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maluleke%2C%20W.%20Mokwena%2C%20R.J.%20The%20effect%20of%20climate%20change%20on%20rural%20livestock%20farming%3A%20case%20study%20of%20Giyani%20policing%20area%2C%20Republic%20of%20South%20Africa%202017)

[^Manzeke_et+al_2012_a]: Manzeke, G.M., Mapfumo, P., Mtambanengwe, F., Chikowo, R., Tendayi, T., Cakmak, I., 2012. Soil fertility management effects on maize productivity and grain zinc content in smallholder farming systems of Zimbabwe. Plant and Soil 361, 57e69. [[Manzeke_et+al_SoilFertilityManagementEffectsMaize_2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Manzeke%2C%20G.M.%20Mapfumo%2C%20P.%20Mtambanengwe%2C%20F.%20Chikowo%2C%20R.%20Soil%20fertility%20management%20effects%20on%20maize%20productivity%20and%20grain%20zinc%20content%20in%20smallholder%20farming%20systems%20of%20Zimbabwe.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20361%2C%2057e69%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Manzeke%2C%20G.M.%20Mapfumo%2C%20P.%20Mtambanengwe%2C%20F.%20Chikowo%2C%20R.%20Soil%20fertility%20management%20effects%20on%20maize%20productivity%20and%20grain%20zinc%20content%20in%20smallholder%20farming%20systems%20of%20Zimbabwe.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20361%2C%2057e69%202012) 

[^Manzeke_et+al_2017_a]: Manzeke, M.G., Mtambanengwe, F., Nezomba, H., Watts, M.J., Broadley, M.R., Mapfumo, P., 2017. Zinc fertilization increases productivity and grain nutritional quality of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) under integrated soil fertility management. Field Crops Research 213, 231e244. [[Manzeke_et+al_ZincFertilizationIncreasesProductivityGrain_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Manzeke%2C%20M.G.%20Mtambanengwe%2C%20F.%20Nezomba%2C%20H.%20Watts%2C%20M.J.%20Zinc%20fertilization%20increases%20productivity%20and%20grain%20nutritional%20quality%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp.%29%20under%20integrated%20soil%20fertility%20management%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Manzeke%2C%20M.G.%20Mtambanengwe%2C%20F.%20Nezomba%2C%20H.%20Watts%2C%20M.J.%20Zinc%20fertilization%20increases%20productivity%20and%20grain%20nutritional%20quality%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp.%29%20under%20integrated%20soil%20fertility%20management%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Manzeke%2C%20M.G.%20Mtambanengwe%2C%20F.%20Nezomba%2C%20H.%20Watts%2C%20M.J.%20Zinc%20fertilization%20increases%20productivity%20and%20grain%20nutritional%20quality%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp.%29%20under%20integrated%20soil%20fertility%20management%202017)

[^Marcillo_2017_a]: Marcillo, G.S., Miguez, F.E., 2017. Corn yield response to winter cover crops: an updated meta-analysis. Journal of Soil and Water Conservation 72, 226e239. [[Marcillo_CornYieldResponseWinterCover_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marcillo%2C%20G.S.%20Miguez%2C%20F.E.%20Corn%20yield%20response%20to%20winter%20cover%20crops%3A%20an%20updated%20meta-analysis%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marcillo%2C%20G.S.%20Miguez%2C%20F.E.%20Corn%20yield%20response%20to%20winter%20cover%20crops%3A%20an%20updated%20meta-analysis%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marcillo%2C%20G.S.%20Miguez%2C%20F.E.%20Corn%20yield%20response%20to%20winter%20cover%20crops%3A%20an%20updated%20meta-analysis%202017)

[^Martins_et+al_2003_a]: Martins, L.M.V., Xavier, G.R., Rangel, F.W., Ribeiro, J.R.A., Neves, M.C.P., Morgado, L.B., Rumjanek, N.G., 2003. Contribution of biological nitrogen fixation to cowpea: a strategy for improving grain yield in the semi-arid region of Brazil. Biology and Fertility of Soils 38, 333e339. [[Martins_et+al_ContributionBiologicalNitrogenFixationCowpea_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martins%2C%20L.M.V.%20Xavier%2C%20G.R.%20Rangel%2C%20F.W.%20Ribeiro%2C%20J.R.A.%20Contribution%20of%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%20to%20cowpea%3A%20a%20strategy%20for%20improving%20grain%20yield%20in%20the%20semi-arid%20region%20of%20Brazil%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martins%2C%20L.M.V.%20Xavier%2C%20G.R.%20Rangel%2C%20F.W.%20Ribeiro%2C%20J.R.A.%20Contribution%20of%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%20to%20cowpea%3A%20a%20strategy%20for%20improving%20grain%20yield%20in%20the%20semi-arid%20region%20of%20Brazil%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martins%2C%20L.M.V.%20Xavier%2C%20G.R.%20Rangel%2C%20F.W.%20Ribeiro%2C%20J.R.A.%20Contribution%20of%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%20to%20cowpea%3A%20a%20strategy%20for%20improving%20grain%20yield%20in%20the%20semi-arid%20region%20of%20Brazil%202003)

[^Maseko_2013_a]: Maseko, S.T., Dakora, F.D., 2013. Plant enzymes, root exudates, cluster roots and mycorrhizal symbiosis are the drivers of P nutrition in native legumes growing in P deficient soil of the Cape fynbos in South Africa. Journal of Agricultural Science and Technology A 3, 331e340. [[Maseko_PlantEnzymesRootExudatesCluster_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Plant%20enzymes%2C%20root%20exudates%2C%20cluster%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20are%20the%20drivers%20of%20P%20nutrition%20in%20native%20legumes%20growing%20in%20P%20deficient%20soil%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%20in%20South%20Africa%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Plant%20enzymes%2C%20root%20exudates%2C%20cluster%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20are%20the%20drivers%20of%20P%20nutrition%20in%20native%20legumes%20growing%20in%20P%20deficient%20soil%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%20in%20South%20Africa%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Plant%20enzymes%2C%20root%20exudates%2C%20cluster%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20are%20the%20drivers%20of%20P%20nutrition%20in%20native%20legumes%20growing%20in%20P%20deficient%20soil%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%20in%20South%20Africa%202013)

[^Maseko_2017_a]: Maseko, S.T., Dakora, F.D., 2017. Accumulation of mineral elements in the rhizosphere and shoots of Cyclopia and Aspalathus species under different settings of the Cape fynbos. South African Journal of Botany 110, 103e109. [[Maseko_AccumulationMineralElementsRhizosphereShoots_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Accumulation%20of%20mineral%20elements%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20shoots%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20under%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Accumulation%20of%20mineral%20elements%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20shoots%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20under%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Accumulation%20of%20mineral%20elements%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20shoots%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20under%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%202017)

[^Maseko_2015_a]: Maseko, S.T., Dakora, F.D., 2015. Nitrogen nutrition, carbon accumulation and d13C of Cyclopia and Aspalathus species in different settings of the Cape fynbos, South Africa. Journal of Plant Ecology 9, 586e595. [[Maseko_NitrogenNutritionCarbonAccumulationD13c_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%2C%20carbon%20accumulation%20and%20d13C%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20in%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%2C%20carbon%20accumulation%20and%20d13C%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20in%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%2C%20carbon%20accumulation%20and%20d13C%20of%20Cyclopia%20and%20Aspalathus%20species%20in%20different%20settings%20of%20the%20Cape%20fynbos%2C%20South%20Africa%202015)

[^Mcdermott_2017_a]: McDermott, J., Wyatt, A., 2017. The role of pulses in sustainable and healthy food systems. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1392, 30e42. [[Mcdermott_RolePulsesSustainableHealthyFood_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=McDermott%2C%20J.%20Wyatt%2C%20A.%20The%20role%20of%20pulses%20in%20sustainable%20and%20healthy%20food%20systems%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McDermott%2C%20J.%20Wyatt%2C%20A.%20The%20role%20of%20pulses%20in%20sustainable%20and%20healthy%20food%20systems%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=McDermott%2C%20J.%20Wyatt%2C%20A.%20The%20role%20of%20pulses%20in%20sustainable%20and%20healthy%20food%20systems%202017)

[^Miheretu_2017_a]: Miheretu, A., Sarkodie-Addo, J., 2017. Response of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) varieties following application of nitrogen fertilizers and inoculation. Journal of Agriculture and Veterinary Science 10, 32e38. [[Miheretu_ResponseCowpeavignaUnguiculataL_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Miheretu%2C%20A.%20Sarkodie-Addo%2C%20J.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20varieties%20following%20application%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20and%20inoculation%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Miheretu%2C%20A.%20Sarkodie-Addo%2C%20J.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20varieties%20following%20application%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20and%20inoculation%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Miheretu%2C%20A.%20Sarkodie-Addo%2C%20J.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20%28Vigna%20unguiculata%20L.%20Walp%29%20varieties%20following%20application%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20and%20inoculation%202017)

[^Mohale_et+al_2014_a]: Mohale, K.C., Belane, A.K., Dakora, F.D., 2014. Symbiotic N nutrition, C assimilation, and plant water use efficiency in Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea L. Verdc) grown in farmers’ fields in South Africa, measured using 15N and 13C natural abundance. Biology and Fertility of Soils 50, 307e319. [[Mohale_et+al_SymbioticNNutritionCAssimilation_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mohale%2C%20K.C.%20Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20N%20nutrition%2C%20C%20assimilation%2C%20and%20plant%20water%20use%20efficiency%20in%20Bambara%20groundnut%20%28Vigna%20subterranea%20L.%20Verdc%29%20grown%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20and%2013C%20natural%20abundance%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mohale%2C%20K.C.%20Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20N%20nutrition%2C%20C%20assimilation%2C%20and%20plant%20water%20use%20efficiency%20in%20Bambara%20groundnut%20%28Vigna%20subterranea%20L.%20Verdc%29%20grown%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20and%2013C%20natural%20abundance%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mohale%2C%20K.C.%20Belane%2C%20A.K.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Symbiotic%20N%20nutrition%2C%20C%20assimilation%2C%20and%20plant%20water%20use%20efficiency%20in%20Bambara%20groundnut%20%28Vigna%20subterranea%20L.%20Verdc%29%20grown%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20South%20Africa%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20and%2013C%20natural%20abundance%202014)

[^Mohammad_et+al_2012_a]: Mohammad, W., Shah, S.M., Shehzadi, S., Shah, S.A., 2012. Effect of tillage, rotation and crop residues on wheat crop productivity, fertilizer nitrogen and water use efficiency and soil organic carbon status in dry area (rainfed) of north-west Pakistan. Journal of Soil Science and Plant Nutrition 12, 715e727. [[Mohammad_et+al_EffectTillageRotationCropResidues_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mohammad%2C%20W.%20Shah%2C%20S.M.%20Shehzadi%2C%20S.%20Shah%2C%20S.A.%20Effect%20of%20tillage%2C%20rotation%20and%20crop%20residues%20on%20wheat%20crop%20productivity%2C%20fertilizer%20nitrogen%20and%20water%20use%20efficiency%20and%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20status%20in%20dry%20area%20%28rainfed%29%20of%20north-west%20Pakistan%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mohammad%2C%20W.%20Shah%2C%20S.M.%20Shehzadi%2C%20S.%20Shah%2C%20S.A.%20Effect%20of%20tillage%2C%20rotation%20and%20crop%20residues%20on%20wheat%20crop%20productivity%2C%20fertilizer%20nitrogen%20and%20water%20use%20efficiency%20and%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20status%20in%20dry%20area%20%28rainfed%29%20of%20north-west%20Pakistan%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mohammad%2C%20W.%20Shah%2C%20S.M.%20Shehzadi%2C%20S.%20Shah%2C%20S.A.%20Effect%20of%20tillage%2C%20rotation%20and%20crop%20residues%20on%20wheat%20crop%20productivity%2C%20fertilizer%20nitrogen%20and%20water%20use%20efficiency%20and%20soil%20organic%20carbon%20status%20in%20dry%20area%20%28rainfed%29%20of%20north-west%20Pakistan%202012)

[^Mokobane_2013_a]: Mokobane, K.F., 2013. Evaluation of symbiotic N nutrition, C accumulation, P uptake and yield of fifteen mungbean genotypes planted at two sites in South African region. Magister Technologiae, Agriculture (Crop Sciences) Dissertation. Tshwane University of Technology. [[Mokobane_EvaluationSymbioticNNutritionC_2013]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mokobane%2C%20K.F.%20Evaluation%20of%20symbiotic%20N%20nutrition%2C%20C%20accumulation%2C%20P%20uptake%20and%20yield%20of%20fifteen%20mungbean%20genotypes%20planted%20at%20two%20sites%20in%20South%20African%20region.%20Magister%20Technologiae%2C%20Agriculture%20%28Crop%20Sciences%29%20Dissertation%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mokobane%2C%20K.F.%20Evaluation%20of%20symbiotic%20N%20nutrition%2C%20C%20accumulation%2C%20P%20uptake%20and%20yield%20of%20fifteen%20mungbean%20genotypes%20planted%20at%20two%20sites%20in%20South%20African%20region.%20Magister%20Technologiae%2C%20Agriculture%20%28Crop%20Sciences%29%20Dissertation%202013) 

[^Mokgehle_et+al_2014_a]: Mokgehle, S.N., Dakora, F.D., Mathews, C., 2014. Variation in N2 fixation and N contribution by 25 groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.) varieties grown in different agro-ecologies, measured using 15N natural abundance. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 195, 161e172. [[Mokgehle_et+al_VariationN2FixationNContribution_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mokgehle%2C%20S.N.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Mathews%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%2025%20groundnut%20%28Arachis%20hypogaea%20L.%29%20varieties%20grown%20in%20different%20agro-ecologies%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mokgehle%2C%20S.N.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Mathews%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%2025%20groundnut%20%28Arachis%20hypogaea%20L.%29%20varieties%20grown%20in%20different%20agro-ecologies%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mokgehle%2C%20S.N.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Mathews%2C%20C.%20Variation%20in%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20contribution%20by%2025%20groundnut%20%28Arachis%20hypogaea%20L.%29%20varieties%20grown%20in%20different%20agro-ecologies%2C%20measured%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014)

[^Moloto_et+al_2018_a]: Moloto, R.M., Moremi, L.H., Soundy, P., Maseko, S.T., 2018. Biofortification of common bean as a complementary approach to addressing zinc deficiency in South Africans. Acta Agriculturae Scandinavica, Section B-Soil & Plant Science 68, 575e584. [[Moloto_et+al_BiofortificationCommonBeanComplementaryApproach_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moloto%2C%20R.M.%20Moremi%2C%20L.H.%20Soundy%2C%20P.%20Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Biofortification%20of%20common%20bean%20as%20a%20complementary%20approach%20to%20addressing%20zinc%20deficiency%20in%20South%20Africans%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moloto%2C%20R.M.%20Moremi%2C%20L.H.%20Soundy%2C%20P.%20Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Biofortification%20of%20common%20bean%20as%20a%20complementary%20approach%20to%20addressing%20zinc%20deficiency%20in%20South%20Africans%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moloto%2C%20R.M.%20Moremi%2C%20L.H.%20Soundy%2C%20P.%20Maseko%2C%20S.T.%20Biofortification%20of%20common%20bean%20as%20a%20complementary%20approach%20to%20addressing%20zinc%20deficiency%20in%20South%20Africans%202018)

[^Moswatsi_et+al_2013_a]: Moswatsi, M.S., Kutu, F.R., Mafeo, T.P., 2013. Response of cowpea to variable rates and methods of zinc application under different field conditions. African Crop Science Conference Proceedings 11, 757e762. [[Moswatsi_et+al_ResponseCowpeaVariableRatesMethods_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moswatsi%2C%20M.S.%20Kutu%2C%20F.R.%20Mafeo%2C%20T.P.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20to%20variable%20rates%20and%20methods%20of%20zinc%20application%20under%20different%20field%20conditions%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moswatsi%2C%20M.S.%20Kutu%2C%20F.R.%20Mafeo%2C%20T.P.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20to%20variable%20rates%20and%20methods%20of%20zinc%20application%20under%20different%20field%20conditions%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moswatsi%2C%20M.S.%20Kutu%2C%20F.R.%20Mafeo%2C%20T.P.%20Response%20of%20cowpea%20to%20variable%20rates%20and%20methods%20of%20zinc%20application%20under%20different%20field%20conditions%202013)

[^Mueller_et+al_2017_a]: Mueller, N.D., Lassaletta, L., Runck, B.C., Billen, G., Garnier, J., Gerber, J.S., 2017. Declining spatial efficiency of global cropland nitrogen allocation. Global Biogeochemical Cycles 31, 245e257. [[Mueller_et+al_DecliningSpatialEfficiencyGlobalCropland_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mueller%2C%20N.D.%20Lassaletta%2C%20L.%20Runck%2C%20B.C.%20Billen%2C%20G.%20Declining%20spatial%20efficiency%20of%20global%20cropland%20nitrogen%20allocation%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mueller%2C%20N.D.%20Lassaletta%2C%20L.%20Runck%2C%20B.C.%20Billen%2C%20G.%20Declining%20spatial%20efficiency%20of%20global%20cropland%20nitrogen%20allocation%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mueller%2C%20N.D.%20Lassaletta%2C%20L.%20Runck%2C%20B.C.%20Billen%2C%20G.%20Declining%20spatial%20efficiency%20of%20global%20cropland%20nitrogen%20allocation%202017)

[^Munda_2017_a]: Munda, E., 2017. Effect of Intercropping and Phosphorous Application on the Growth and Yield of Sweet Potato, Groundnut and Soybean (Doctoral Dissertation. Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch. [[Munda_EffectIntercroppingPhosphorousApplicationGrowth_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Munda%2C%20E.%20Effect%20of%20Intercropping%20and%20Phosphorous%20Application%20on%20the%20Growth%20and%20Yield%20of%20Sweet%20Potato%2C%20Groundnut%20and%20Soybean%20%28Doctoral%20Dissertation%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Munda%2C%20E.%20Effect%20of%20Intercropping%20and%20Phosphorous%20Application%20on%20the%20Growth%20and%20Yield%20of%20Sweet%20Potato%2C%20Groundnut%20and%20Soybean%20%28Doctoral%20Dissertation%202017) 

[^Muofhe_2000_a]: Muofhe, M.L., Dakora, F.D., 2000. Modification of rhizosphere pH by the symbiotic legume Aspalathus linearis growing in a sandy acidic soil. Functional Plant Biology 27, 1169e1173. [[Muofhe_ModificationRhizospherePhSymbioticLegume_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Muofhe%2C%20M.L.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Modification%20of%20rhizosphere%20pH%20by%20the%20symbiotic%20legume%20Aspalathus%20linearis%20growing%20in%20a%20sandy%20acidic%20soil%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Muofhe%2C%20M.L.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Modification%20of%20rhizosphere%20pH%20by%20the%20symbiotic%20legume%20Aspalathus%20linearis%20growing%20in%20a%20sandy%20acidic%20soil%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Muofhe%2C%20M.L.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Modification%20of%20rhizosphere%20pH%20by%20the%20symbiotic%20legume%20Aspalathus%20linearis%20growing%20in%20a%20sandy%20acidic%20soil%202000)

[^Muofhe_1999_a]: Muofhe, M.L., Dakora, F.D., 1999. Nitrogen nutrition in nodulated field plants of the shrub tea legume Aspalathus linearis assessed using 15N natural abundance. Plant and Soil 209, 181e186. [[Muofhe_NitrogenNutritionNodulatedFieldPlants_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Muofhe%2C%20M.L.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%20in%20nodulated%20field%20plants%20of%20the%20shrub%20tea%20legume%20Aspalathus%20linearis%20assessed%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20209%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Muofhe%2C%20M.L.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Nitrogen%20nutrition%20in%20nodulated%20field%20plants%20of%20the%20shrub%20tea%20legume%20Aspalathus%20linearis%20assessed%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20209%201999) 

[^Ndakidemi_2005_a]: Ndakidemi, P.A., 2005. Nutritional Characterisation of the Rhizosphere of Symbiotic Cowpea and Maize Plants in Different Cropping System (Doctoral Dissertation. Cape Peninsula University of Technology. [[Ndakidemi_NutritionalCharacterisationRhizosphereSymbioticCowpea_2005]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ndakidemi%2C%20P.A.%20Nutritional%20Characterisation%20of%20the%20Rhizosphere%20of%20Symbiotic%20Cowpea%20and%20Maize%20Plants%20in%20Different%20Cropping%20System%20%28Doctoral%20Dissertation.%20Cape%20Peninsula%20University%20of%20Technology%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ndakidemi%2C%20P.A.%20Nutritional%20Characterisation%20of%20the%20Rhizosphere%20of%20Symbiotic%20Cowpea%20and%20Maize%20Plants%20in%20Different%20Cropping%20System%20%28Doctoral%20Dissertation.%20Cape%20Peninsula%20University%20of%20Technology%202005) 

[^Nebiyu_et+al_2014_a]: Nebiyu, A., Huygens, D., Upadhayay, H.R., Diels, J., Boeckx, P., 2014. Importance of correct B value determination to quantify biological N2 fixation and N balances of faba beans (Vicia faba L.) via 15N natural abundance. Biology and Fertility of Soils 50, 517e525. [[Nebiyu_et+al_ImportanceCorrectBValueDetermination_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nebiyu%2C%20A.%20Huygens%2C%20D.%20Upadhayay%2C%20H.R.%20Diels%2C%20J.%20Importance%20of%20correct%20B%20value%20determination%20to%20quantify%20biological%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20balances%20of%20faba%20beans%20%28Vicia%20faba%20L.%29%20via%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nebiyu%2C%20A.%20Huygens%2C%20D.%20Upadhayay%2C%20H.R.%20Diels%2C%20J.%20Importance%20of%20correct%20B%20value%20determination%20to%20quantify%20biological%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20balances%20of%20faba%20beans%20%28Vicia%20faba%20L.%29%20via%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nebiyu%2C%20A.%20Huygens%2C%20D.%20Upadhayay%2C%20H.R.%20Diels%2C%20J.%20Importance%20of%20correct%20B%20value%20determination%20to%20quantify%20biological%20N2%20fixation%20and%20N%20balances%20of%20faba%20beans%20%28Vicia%20faba%20L.%29%20via%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202014)

[^Neumann_1999_a]: Neumann, G., Romheld, V., 1999. Root excretion of carboxylic acids and protons in phosphorus-deficient plants. Plant and Soil 211, 121e130. [[Neumann_RootExcretionCarboxylicAcidsProtons_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Neumann%2C%20G.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Root%20excretion%20of%20carboxylic%20acids%20and%20protons%20in%20phosphorus-deficient%20plants.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20211%2C%20121e130%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Neumann%2C%20G.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Root%20excretion%20of%20carboxylic%20acids%20and%20protons%20in%20phosphorus-deficient%20plants.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20211%2C%20121e130%201999) 

[^Niyuhire_et+al_2017_a]: Niyuhire, M.C., Pypers, P., Vanlauwe, B., Nziguheba, G., Roobroeck, D., Merckx, R., 2017. Profitability of diammonium phosphate use in bush and climbing bean-maize rotations in smallholder farms of Central Burundi. Field Crops Research 21, 252e260. [[Niyuhire_et+al_ProfitabilityDiammoniumPhosphateBushClimbing_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Niyuhire%2C%20M.C.%20Pypers%2C%20P.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Nziguheba%2C%20G.%20Profitability%20of%20diammonium%20phosphate%20use%20in%20bush%20and%20climbing%20bean-maize%20rotations%20in%20smallholder%20farms%20of%20Central%20Burundi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Niyuhire%2C%20M.C.%20Pypers%2C%20P.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Nziguheba%2C%20G.%20Profitability%20of%20diammonium%20phosphate%20use%20in%20bush%20and%20climbing%20bean-maize%20rotations%20in%20smallholder%20farms%20of%20Central%20Burundi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Niyuhire%2C%20M.C.%20Pypers%2C%20P.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Nziguheba%2C%20G.%20Profitability%20of%20diammonium%20phosphate%20use%20in%20bush%20and%20climbing%20bean-maize%20rotations%20in%20smallholder%20farms%20of%20Central%20Burundi%202017)

[^Norouzi_et+al_2014_a]: Norouzi, M., Khoshgoftarmanesh, A.H., Afyuni, M., 2014. Zinc fractions in soil and uptake by wheat as affected by different preceding crops. Soil Science & Plant Nutrition 60, 670e678. [[Norouzi_et+al_ZincFractionsSoilUptakeWheat_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Zinc%20fractions%20in%20soil%20and%20uptake%20by%20wheat%20as%20affected%20by%20different%20preceding%20crops%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Zinc%20fractions%20in%20soil%20and%20uptake%20by%20wheat%20as%20affected%20by%20different%20preceding%20crops%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Norouzi%2C%20M.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Zinc%20fractions%20in%20soil%20and%20uptake%20by%20wheat%20as%20affected%20by%20different%20preceding%20crops%202014)

[^Nyemba_2010_a]: Nyemba, C., Dakora, F.D., 2010. Evaluating N2 fixation by food grain legumes in farmers’ fields in three agro-ecological zones of Zambia, using 15N natural abundance. Biology and Fertility of Soils 46, 461e470. [[Nyemba_EvaluatingN2FixationFoodGrain_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nyemba%2C%20C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Evaluating%20N2%20fixation%20by%20food%20grain%20legumes%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20three%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Zambia%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nyemba%2C%20C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Evaluating%20N2%20fixation%20by%20food%20grain%20legumes%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20three%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Zambia%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nyemba%2C%20C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Evaluating%20N2%20fixation%20by%20food%20grain%20legumes%20in%20farmers%E2%80%99%20fields%20in%20three%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Zambia%2C%20using%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202010)

[^Okito_et+al_2004_a]: Okito, A., Alves, B.J.R., Urquiaga, S., Boddey, R.M., 2004. Nitrogen fixation by groundnut and velvet bean and residual benefit to a subsequent maize crop. Pesquisa Agropecuaria Brasileira 39, 1183e1190. [[Okito_et+al_NitrogenFixationGroundnutVelvetBean_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Okito%2C%20A.%20Alves%2C%20B.J.R.%20Urquiaga%2C%20S.%20Boddey%2C%20R.M.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20groundnut%20and%20velvet%20bean%20and%20residual%20benefit%20to%20a%20subsequent%20maize%20crop%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Okito%2C%20A.%20Alves%2C%20B.J.R.%20Urquiaga%2C%20S.%20Boddey%2C%20R.M.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20groundnut%20and%20velvet%20bean%20and%20residual%20benefit%20to%20a%20subsequent%20maize%20crop%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Okito%2C%20A.%20Alves%2C%20B.J.R.%20Urquiaga%2C%20S.%20Boddey%2C%20R.M.%20Nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20groundnut%20and%20velvet%20bean%20and%20residual%20benefit%20to%20a%20subsequent%20maize%20crop%202004)

[^Okpara_2014_a]: Okpara, I.M., Igwe, C.A., 2014. Soil chemical properties and legume-cereal rotation benefits in an Ultisol in Nsukka, South eastern Nigeria. African Journal of Biotechnology 13 (23). [[Okpara_SoilChemicalPropertiesLegumecerealRotation_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Okpara%2C%20I.M.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20chemical%20properties%20and%20legume-cereal%20rotation%20benefits%20in%20an%20Ultisol%20in%20Nsukka%2C%20South%20eastern%20Nigeria%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Okpara%2C%20I.M.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20chemical%20properties%20and%20legume-cereal%20rotation%20benefits%20in%20an%20Ultisol%20in%20Nsukka%2C%20South%20eastern%20Nigeria%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Okpara%2C%20I.M.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Soil%20chemical%20properties%20and%20legume-cereal%20rotation%20benefits%20in%20an%20Ultisol%20in%20Nsukka%2C%20South%20eastern%20Nigeria%202014)

[^Paungfoo-Lonhienne_et+al_2017_a]: Paungfoo-Lonhienne, C., Wang, W., Yeoh, Y.K., Halpin, N., 2017. Legume crop rotation suppressed nitrifying microbial community in a sugarcane cropping soil. Scientific Reports. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-17080-z. [[Paungfoo-Lonhienne_et+al_LegumeCropRotationSuppressedNitrifying_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-17080-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/s41598-017-17080-z)

[^Peralta_et+al_2018_a]: Peralta, A.L., Sun, Y., McDaniel, M.D., Lennon, J.T., 2018. Crop rotational diversity increases disease suppressive capacity of soil microbiomes. Ecosphere 9, 2235. [[Peralta_et+al_CropRotationalDiversityIncreasesDisease_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Peralta%2C%20A.L.%20Sun%2C%20Y.%20McDaniel%2C%20M.D.%20Lennon%2C%20J.T.%20Crop%20rotational%20diversity%20increases%20disease%20suppressive%20capacity%20of%20soil%20microbiomes%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Peralta%2C%20A.L.%20Sun%2C%20Y.%20McDaniel%2C%20M.D.%20Lennon%2C%20J.T.%20Crop%20rotational%20diversity%20increases%20disease%20suppressive%20capacity%20of%20soil%20microbiomes%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Peralta%2C%20A.L.%20Sun%2C%20Y.%20McDaniel%2C%20M.D.%20Lennon%2C%20J.T.%20Crop%20rotational%20diversity%20increases%20disease%20suppressive%20capacity%20of%20soil%20microbiomes%202018)

[^Pule-Meulenberg_2009_a]: Pule-Meulenberg, F., Dakora, F.D., 2009. Assessing the symbiotic dependency of grain and tree legumes on N2 fixation for their N nutrition in five agro-ecological zones of Botswana. Symbiosis 48, 68e77. [[Pule-Meulenberg_AssessingSymbioticDependencyGrainTree_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessing%20the%20symbiotic%20dependency%20of%20grain%20and%20tree%20legumes%20on%20N2%20fixation%20for%20their%20N%20nutrition%20in%20five%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Botswana%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessing%20the%20symbiotic%20dependency%20of%20grain%20and%20tree%20legumes%20on%20N2%20fixation%20for%20their%20N%20nutrition%20in%20five%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Botswana%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pule-Meulenberg%2C%20F.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Assessing%20the%20symbiotic%20dependency%20of%20grain%20and%20tree%20legumes%20on%20N2%20fixation%20for%20their%20N%20nutrition%20in%20five%20agro-ecological%20zones%20of%20Botswana%202009)

[^Punyalue_et+al_2018_a]: Punyalue, A., Jamjod, S., Rerkasem, B., 2018. Intercropping maize with legumes for sustainable highland maize production. Mountain Research and Development 38, 35e44. [[Punyalue_et+al_IntercroppingMaizeWithLegumesSustainable_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Punyalue%2C%20A.%20Jamjod%2C%20S.%20Rerkasem%2C%20B.%20Intercropping%20maize%20with%20legumes%20for%20sustainable%20highland%20maize%20production%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Punyalue%2C%20A.%20Jamjod%2C%20S.%20Rerkasem%2C%20B.%20Intercropping%20maize%20with%20legumes%20for%20sustainable%20highland%20maize%20production%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Punyalue%2C%20A.%20Jamjod%2C%20S.%20Rerkasem%2C%20B.%20Intercropping%20maize%20with%20legumes%20for%20sustainable%20highland%20maize%20production%202018)

[^Reckling_et+al_2016_a]: Reckling, M., Bergkvist, G., Watson, C.A., Stoddard, F.L., Zander, P.M., Walker, R.L., Pristeri, A., Toncea, I., Bachinger, J., 2016. Trade-offs between economic and environmental impacts of introducing legumes into cropping systems. Frontiers of Plant Science 7, 669. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.00669. [[Reckling_et+al_TradeoffsBetweenEconomicEnvironmentalImpacts_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.00669)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2016.00669)

[^Reddy_et+al_2013_a]: Reddy, K.N., Zablotowicz, R.M., Krutz, L.J., 2013. Corn and soybean rotation under reduced tillage management: impacts on soil properties, yield, and net return. American Journal of Plant Sciences 4, 10e17. [[Reddy_et+al_CornSoybeanRotationUnderReduced_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reddy%2C%20K.N.%20Zablotowicz%2C%20R.M.%20Krutz%2C%20L.J.%20Corn%20and%20soybean%20rotation%20under%20reduced%20tillage%20management%3A%20impacts%20on%20soil%20properties%2C%20yield%2C%20and%20net%20return%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reddy%2C%20K.N.%20Zablotowicz%2C%20R.M.%20Krutz%2C%20L.J.%20Corn%20and%20soybean%20rotation%20under%20reduced%20tillage%20management%3A%20impacts%20on%20soil%20properties%2C%20yield%2C%20and%20net%20return%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reddy%2C%20K.N.%20Zablotowicz%2C%20R.M.%20Krutz%2C%20L.J.%20Corn%20and%20soybean%20rotation%20under%20reduced%20tillage%20management%3A%20impacts%20on%20soil%20properties%2C%20yield%2C%20and%20net%20return%202013)

[^Rengel_2015_a]: Rengel, Z., 2015. Availability of Mn, Zn and Fe in the rhizosphere. Journal of Soil Science and Plant Nutrition 15, 397e409. [[Rengel_AvailabilityMnZnFeRhizosphere_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Availability%20of%20Mn%2C%20Zn%20and%20Fe%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Availability%20of%20Mn%2C%20Zn%20and%20Fe%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Availability%20of%20Mn%2C%20Zn%20and%20Fe%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%202015)

[^Richardson_et+al_2009_a]: Richardson, A.E., Barea, J.M., McNeill, A.M., Prigent-Combaret, C., 2009. Acquisition of phosphorus and nitrogen in the rhizosphere and plant growth promotion by microorganisms. Plant and Soil 321, 305e339. [[Richardson_et+al_AcquisitionPhosphorusNitrogenRhizospherePlant_2009]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Richardson%2C%20A.E.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20McNeill%2C%20A.M.%20Prigent-Combaret%2C%20C.%20Acquisition%20of%20phosphorus%20and%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20plant%20growth%20promotion%20by%20microorganisms.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20321%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Richardson%2C%20A.E.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20McNeill%2C%20A.M.%20Prigent-Combaret%2C%20C.%20Acquisition%20of%20phosphorus%20and%20nitrogen%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20plant%20growth%20promotion%20by%20microorganisms.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20321%202009) 

[^Rurangwa_et+al_2018_a]: Rurangwa, E., Vanlauwe, B., Giller, K.E., 2018. Benefits of inoculation, P fertiliser and manure on yields of common bean and soybean also increase yield of subsequent maize. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 261, 219e229. [[Rurangwa_et+al_BenefitsInoculationPFertiliserManure_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rurangwa%2C%20E.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Benefits%20of%20inoculation%2C%20P%20fertiliser%20and%20manure%20on%20yields%20of%20common%20bean%20and%20soybean%20also%20increase%20yield%20of%20subsequent%20maize%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rurangwa%2C%20E.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Benefits%20of%20inoculation%2C%20P%20fertiliser%20and%20manure%20on%20yields%20of%20common%20bean%20and%20soybean%20also%20increase%20yield%20of%20subsequent%20maize%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rurangwa%2C%20E.%20Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Benefits%20of%20inoculation%2C%20P%20fertiliser%20and%20manure%20on%20yields%20of%20common%20bean%20and%20soybean%20also%20increase%20yield%20of%20subsequent%20maize%202018)

[^Russo_et+al_2017_a]: Russo, T.A., Tully, K., Palm, C., Neill, C., 2017. Leaching losses from Kenyan maize cropland receiving different rates of nitrogen fertilizer. Nutrient Cycling and Agroecosystems 108, 195e209. [[Russo_et+al_LeachingLossesFromKenyanMaize_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Russo%2C%20T.A.%20Tully%2C%20K.%20Palm%2C%20C.%20Neill%2C%20C.%20Leaching%20losses%20from%20Kenyan%20maize%20cropland%20receiving%20different%20rates%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizer%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Russo%2C%20T.A.%20Tully%2C%20K.%20Palm%2C%20C.%20Neill%2C%20C.%20Leaching%20losses%20from%20Kenyan%20maize%20cropland%20receiving%20different%20rates%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizer%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Russo%2C%20T.A.%20Tully%2C%20K.%20Palm%2C%20C.%20Neill%2C%20C.%20Leaching%20losses%20from%20Kenyan%20maize%20cropland%20receiving%20different%20rates%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizer%202017)

[^Samago_et+al_2018_a]: Samago, T.Y., Anniye, E.W., Dakora, F.D., 2018. Grain yield of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) varieties is markedly increased by rhizobial inoculation and phosphorus application in Ethiopia. Symbiosis 75, 245e255. [[Samago_et+al_GrainYieldCommonBeanphaseolus_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Samago%2C%20T.Y.%20Anniye%2C%20E.W.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Grain%20yield%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20varieties%20is%20markedly%20increased%20by%20rhizobial%20inoculation%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20in%20Ethiopia%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Samago%2C%20T.Y.%20Anniye%2C%20E.W.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Grain%20yield%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20varieties%20is%20markedly%20increased%20by%20rhizobial%20inoculation%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20in%20Ethiopia%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Samago%2C%20T.Y.%20Anniye%2C%20E.W.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Grain%20yield%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20varieties%20is%20markedly%20increased%20by%20rhizobial%20inoculation%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20in%20Ethiopia%202018)

[^Sanchez_2015_a]: Sanchez, P.A., 2015. En route to plentiful food production in Africa. Nature Plants 1, 1e2. [[Sanchez_RoutePlentifulFoodProductionAfrica_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sanchez%2C%20P.A.%20En%20route%20to%20plentiful%20food%20production%20in%20Africa%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanchez%2C%20P.A.%20En%20route%20to%20plentiful%20food%20production%20in%20Africa%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sanchez%2C%20P.A.%20En%20route%20to%20plentiful%20food%20production%20in%20Africa%202015)

[^Sasse_et+al_2018_a]: Sasse, J., Kant, J., Cole, B.J., Klein, A.P., Arsova, B., Schlaepfer, P., Gao, J., Lewald, K., Zhalnina, K., Kosina, S., Bowen, B.P., 2018. Multi-lab EcoFAB Study Shows Highly Reproducible Physiology and Depletion of Soil Metabolites by a Model Grass, p. 435818 bioRxiv. Schutz, L., Gattinger, A., Meier, M., Muller, A., Boller, T., Mader, P., Mathimaran, N., 2018. Improving crop yield and nutrient use efficiency via biofertilization-A global metaanalysis. Frontiers of Plant Science 8, 2204. [[Sasse_et+al_MultiEcofabStudyShowsHighly_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sasse%2C%20J.%20Kant%2C%20J.%20Cole%2C%20B.J.%20Klein%2C%20A.P.%20Multi-lab%20EcoFAB%20Study%20Shows%20Highly%20Reproducible%20Physiology%20and%20Depletion%20of%20Soil%20Metabolites%20by%20a%20Model%20Grass%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sasse%2C%20J.%20Kant%2C%20J.%20Cole%2C%20B.J.%20Klein%2C%20A.P.%20Multi-lab%20EcoFAB%20Study%20Shows%20Highly%20Reproducible%20Physiology%20and%20Depletion%20of%20Soil%20Metabolites%20by%20a%20Model%20Grass%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sasse%2C%20J.%20Kant%2C%20J.%20Cole%2C%20B.J.%20Klein%2C%20A.P.%20Multi-lab%20EcoFAB%20Study%20Shows%20Highly%20Reproducible%20Physiology%20and%20Depletion%20of%20Soil%20Metabolites%20by%20a%20Model%20Grass%202018)

[^Shah_et+al_2003_a]: Shah, Z., Shah, S.H., Peoples, M.B., Schwenke, G.D., Herridge, D.F., 2003. Crop residue and fertiliser N effects on nitrogen fixation and yields of legume-cereal rotations and soil organic fertility. Field Crops Research 83, 1e11. [[Shah_et+al_CropResidueFertiliserNEffects_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shah%2C%20Z.%20Shah%2C%20S.H.%20Peoples%2C%20M.B.%20Schwenke%2C%20G.D.%20Crop%20residue%20and%20fertiliser%20N%20effects%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20yields%20of%20legume-cereal%20rotations%20and%20soil%20organic%20fertility%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shah%2C%20Z.%20Shah%2C%20S.H.%20Peoples%2C%20M.B.%20Schwenke%2C%20G.D.%20Crop%20residue%20and%20fertiliser%20N%20effects%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20yields%20of%20legume-cereal%20rotations%20and%20soil%20organic%20fertility%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shah%2C%20Z.%20Shah%2C%20S.H.%20Peoples%2C%20M.B.%20Schwenke%2C%20G.D.%20Crop%20residue%20and%20fertiliser%20N%20effects%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20yields%20of%20legume-cereal%20rotations%20and%20soil%20organic%20fertility%202003)

[^Shelton_et+al_2018_a]: Shelton, R.E., Jacobsen, K.L., McCulley, R.L., 2018. Cover crops and fertilization alter nitrogen loss in organic and conventional conservation agriculture systems. Frontiers of Plant Science 8, 2260. [[Shelton_et+al_CoverCropsFertilizationAlterNitrogen_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shelton%2C%20R.E.%20Jacobsen%2C%20K.L.%20McCulley%2C%20R.L.%20Cover%20crops%20and%20fertilization%20alter%20nitrogen%20loss%20in%20organic%20and%20conventional%20conservation%20agriculture%20systems%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shelton%2C%20R.E.%20Jacobsen%2C%20K.L.%20McCulley%2C%20R.L.%20Cover%20crops%20and%20fertilization%20alter%20nitrogen%20loss%20in%20organic%20and%20conventional%20conservation%20agriculture%20systems%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shelton%2C%20R.E.%20Jacobsen%2C%20K.L.%20McCulley%2C%20R.L.%20Cover%20crops%20and%20fertilization%20alter%20nitrogen%20loss%20in%20organic%20and%20conventional%20conservation%20agriculture%20systems%202018)

[^Shen_et+al_2011_a]: Shen, J., Yuan, L., Zhang, J., Li, H., Bai, Z., Chen, X., Zhang, W., Zhang, F., 2011. Phosphorus dynamics: from soil to plant. Plant Physiology 111. [[Shen_et+al_PhosphorusDynamicsFromSoilPlant_2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shen%2C%20J.%20Yuan%2C%20L.%20Zhang%2C%20J.%20Li%2C%20H.%20Phosphorus%20dynamics%3A%20from%20soil%20to%20plant.%20Plant%20Physiology%20111%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shen%2C%20J.%20Yuan%2C%20L.%20Zhang%2C%20J.%20Li%2C%20H.%20Phosphorus%20dynamics%3A%20from%20soil%20to%20plant.%20Plant%20Physiology%20111%202011) 

[^Sibanda_et+al_2018_a]: Sibanda, S., Grab, S., Ahmed, F., 2018. Spatio-temporal temperature trends and extreme hydro-climatic events in southern Zimbabwe. South African Geographical Journal 100, 210e232. [[Sibanda_et+al_SpatiotemporalTemperatureTrendsExtremeHydroclimatic_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sibanda%2C%20S.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ahmed%2C%20F.%20Spatio-temporal%20temperature%20trends%20and%20extreme%20hydro-climatic%20events%20in%20southern%20Zimbabwe%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sibanda%2C%20S.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ahmed%2C%20F.%20Spatio-temporal%20temperature%20trends%20and%20extreme%20hydro-climatic%20events%20in%20southern%20Zimbabwe%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sibanda%2C%20S.%20Grab%2C%20S.%20Ahmed%2C%20F.%20Spatio-temporal%20temperature%20trends%20and%20extreme%20hydro-climatic%20events%20in%20southern%20Zimbabwe%202018)

[^Silva_et+al_2018_a]: Silva, V.M., Boleta, E.H.M., Lanza, M.G.D.B., et al., 2018. [[Silva_et+al__2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Silva%20VM%20Boleta%20EHM%20Lanza%20MGDB%20et%20al%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Silva%20VM%20Boleta%20EHM%20Lanza%20MGDB%20et%20al%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Silva%20VM%20Boleta%20EHM%20Lanza%20MGDB%20et%20al%202018)

[^Singh_2017_a]: Singh, R., Singh, G.S., 2017. Traditional agriculture: a climate-smart approach for sustainable food production. Energy, Ecology and Environment 2, 296e316. [[Singh_TraditionalAgricultureClimatesmartApproachSustainable_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Singh%2C%20R.%20Singh%2C%20G.S.%20Traditional%20agriculture%3A%20a%20climate-smart%20approach%20for%20sustainable%20food%20production%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20R.%20Singh%2C%20G.S.%20Traditional%20agriculture%3A%20a%20climate-smart%20approach%20for%20sustainable%20food%20production%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Singh%2C%20R.%20Singh%2C%20G.S.%20Traditional%20agriculture%3A%20a%20climate-smart%20approach%20for%20sustainable%20food%20production%202017)

[^Singh_et+al_2017_b]: Singh, B., Singh, J.P., Shevkani, K., Singh, N., Kaur, A., 2017. Bioactive constituents in pulses and their health benefits. Journal of Food Science & Technology 54, 858e870. [[Singh_et+al_BioactiveConstituentsPulsesTheirHealth_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Singh%2C%20B.%20Singh%2C%20J.P.%20Shevkani%2C%20K.%20Singh%2C%20N.%20Bioactive%20constituents%20in%20pulses%20and%20their%20health%20benefits%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Singh%2C%20B.%20Singh%2C%20J.P.%20Shevkani%2C%20K.%20Singh%2C%20N.%20Bioactive%20constituents%20in%20pulses%20and%20their%20health%20benefits%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Singh%2C%20B.%20Singh%2C%20J.P.%20Shevkani%2C%20K.%20Singh%2C%20N.%20Bioactive%20constituents%20in%20pulses%20and%20their%20health%20benefits%202017)

[^Smil_1999_a]: Smil, V., 1999. Nitrogen in crop production: an account of global flows. Global Biogeochemical Cycles 13, 647e662. [[Smil_NitrogenCropProductionAccountGlobal_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smil%2C%20V.%20Nitrogen%20in%20crop%20production%3A%20an%20account%20of%20global%20flows%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smil%2C%20V.%20Nitrogen%20in%20crop%20production%3A%20an%20account%20of%20global%20flows%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smil%2C%20V.%20Nitrogen%20in%20crop%20production%3A%20an%20account%20of%20global%20flows%201999)

[^Smil_2001_a]: Smil, V., 2001. Enriching the Earth: Fritz Haber, Carl Bosch and the transformation of world agriculture. Cambridge, MA. [[Smil_EnrichingEarthFritzHaberCarl_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smil%2C%20V.%20Enriching%20the%20Earth%3A%20Fritz%20Haber%2C%20Carl%20Bosch%20and%20the%20transformation%20of%20world%20agriculture%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smil%2C%20V.%20Enriching%20the%20Earth%3A%20Fritz%20Haber%2C%20Carl%20Bosch%20and%20the%20transformation%20of%20world%20agriculture%202001) 

[^Soltani_et+al_2014_a]: Soltani, S., Khoshgoftarmanesh, A.H., Afyuni, M., Shrivani, M., Schulin, R., 2014. The effect of preceding crop on wheat grain zinc concentration and its relationship to total amino acids and dissolved organic carbon in rhizosphere soil solution. Biology and Fertility of Soils 50, 239e247. [[Soltani_et+al_EffectPrecedingCropWheatGrain_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Soltani%2C%20S.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Shrivani%2C%20M.%20The%20effect%20of%20preceding%20crop%20on%20wheat%20grain%20zinc%20concentration%20and%20its%20relationship%20to%20total%20amino%20acids%20and%20dissolved%20organic%20carbon%20in%20rhizosphere%20soil%20solution%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Soltani%2C%20S.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Shrivani%2C%20M.%20The%20effect%20of%20preceding%20crop%20on%20wheat%20grain%20zinc%20concentration%20and%20its%20relationship%20to%20total%20amino%20acids%20and%20dissolved%20organic%20carbon%20in%20rhizosphere%20soil%20solution%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Soltani%2C%20S.%20Khoshgoftarmanesh%2C%20A.H.%20Afyuni%2C%20M.%20Shrivani%2C%20M.%20The%20effect%20of%20preceding%20crop%20on%20wheat%20grain%20zinc%20concentration%20and%20its%20relationship%20to%20total%20amino%20acids%20and%20dissolved%20organic%20carbon%20in%20rhizosphere%20soil%20solution%202014)

[^Souza_et+al_2018_a]: Souza, G.A.V.D.S., de Souza, T.A.F., Santos, D., Rios, E.S., de Lima Souza, G.J., 2018. Agronomic evaluation of legume cover crops for sustainable agriculture. Russian Agricultural Sciences 44, 31e38. [[Souza_et+al_AgronomicEvaluationLegumeCoverCrops_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Souza%2C%20G.A.V.D.S.%20de%20Souza%2C%20T.A.F.%20Santos%2C%20D.%20Rios%2C%20E.S.%20Agronomic%20evaluation%20of%20legume%20cover%20crops%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Souza%2C%20G.A.V.D.S.%20de%20Souza%2C%20T.A.F.%20Santos%2C%20D.%20Rios%2C%20E.S.%20Agronomic%20evaluation%20of%20legume%20cover%20crops%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Souza%2C%20G.A.V.D.S.%20de%20Souza%2C%20T.A.F.%20Santos%2C%20D.%20Rios%2C%20E.S.%20Agronomic%20evaluation%20of%20legume%20cover%20crops%20for%20sustainable%20agriculture%202018)

[^Spriggs_2008_a]: Spriggs, A.C., Dakora, F.D., 2008. Field assessment of symbiotic N2 fixation in wild and cultivated Cyclopia species in the South African fynbos by 15N natural abundance. Tree Physiology 29, 239e247. [[Spriggs_FieldAssessmentSymbioticN2Fixation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Spriggs%2C%20A.C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Field%20assessment%20of%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20in%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20Cyclopia%20species%20in%20the%20South%20African%20fynbos%20by%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spriggs%2C%20A.C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Field%20assessment%20of%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20in%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20Cyclopia%20species%20in%20the%20South%20African%20fynbos%20by%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Spriggs%2C%20A.C.%20Dakora%2C%20F.D.%20Field%20assessment%20of%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20in%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20Cyclopia%20species%20in%20the%20South%20African%20fynbos%20by%2015N%20natural%20abundance%202008)

[^Stagnari_et+al_2017_a]: Stagnari, F., Maggio, A., Galieni, A., Pisante, M., 2017. Multiple benefits of legumes for agriculture sustainability: an overview. Chemical and Biological Technologies in Agriculture 4, 2. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40538-16-0085-1. [[Stagnari_et+al_MultipleBenefitsLegumesAgricultureSustainability_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40538-16-0085-1)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1186/s40538-16-0085-1)

[^Sun_et+al_2018_a]: Sun, F.S., Pan, K., Li, Z., Wang, S., Tariq, A., Olatunji, O.A., Sun, X., Zhang, L., Shi, W., Wu, X., 2018. Soybean supplementation increases the resilience of microbial and nematode communities in soil to extreme rainfall in an agroforestry system. The Science of the Total Environment 626, 776e784. [[Sun_et+al_SoybeanSupplementationIncreasesResilienceMicrobial_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sun%2C%20F.S.%20Pan%2C%20K.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Soybean%20supplementation%20increases%20the%20resilience%20of%20microbial%20and%20nematode%20communities%20in%20soil%20to%20extreme%20rainfall%20in%20an%20agroforestry%20system%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sun%2C%20F.S.%20Pan%2C%20K.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Soybean%20supplementation%20increases%20the%20resilience%20of%20microbial%20and%20nematode%20communities%20in%20soil%20to%20extreme%20rainfall%20in%20an%20agroforestry%20system%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sun%2C%20F.S.%20Pan%2C%20K.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Wang%2C%20S.%20Soybean%20supplementation%20increases%20the%20resilience%20of%20microbial%20and%20nematode%20communities%20in%20soil%20to%20extreme%20rainfall%20in%20an%20agroforestry%20system%202018)

[^Tang_et+al_1997_a]: Tang, C., Barton, L., McLay, C.D.A., 1997. A comparison of proton excretion of twelve pasture legumes grown in nutrient solution. Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture 37, 563e570. [[Tang_et+al_ComparisonProtonExcretionTwelvePasture_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tang%2C%20C.%20Barton%2C%20L.%20McLay%2C%20C.D.A.%20A%20comparison%20of%20proton%20excretion%20of%20twelve%20pasture%20legumes%20grown%20in%20nutrient%20solution%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tang%2C%20C.%20Barton%2C%20L.%20McLay%2C%20C.D.A.%20A%20comparison%20of%20proton%20excretion%20of%20twelve%20pasture%20legumes%20grown%20in%20nutrient%20solution%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tang%2C%20C.%20Barton%2C%20L.%20McLay%2C%20C.D.A.%20A%20comparison%20of%20proton%20excretion%20of%20twelve%20pasture%20legumes%20grown%20in%20nutrient%20solution%201997)

[^Tang_et+al_2018_a]: Tang, Y., Li, X., Shen, W., Duan, Z., 2018. Effect of the slow-release nitrogen fertilizer oxamide on ammonia volatilization and nitrogen use efficiency in paddy soil. Agronomy 8, 53. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8040053. [[Tang_et+al_EffectSlowreleaseNitrogenFertilizerOxamide_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy8040053)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/agronomy8040053)

[^Thompson_2015_a]: Thompson, B., Cohen, M., 2015. Increased concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide and zinc deficiency. The Lancet Global Health 3, e585ee586. [[Thompson_IncreasedConcentrationsAtmosphericCarbonDioxide_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thompson%2C%20B.%20Cohen%2C%20M.%20Increased%20concentrations%20of%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20zinc%20deficiency%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thompson%2C%20B.%20Cohen%2C%20M.%20Increased%20concentrations%20of%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20zinc%20deficiency%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thompson%2C%20B.%20Cohen%2C%20M.%20Increased%20concentrations%20of%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20zinc%20deficiency%202015)

[^Treeby_et+al_1989_a]: Treeby, M., Marschner, H., Romheld, V., 1989. Mobilization of iron and other micronutrient cations from a calcareous soil by plant-borne, microbial, and synthetic metal chelators. Plant and Soil 114, 217e226. [[Treeby_et+al_MobilizationIronOtherMicronutrientCations_1989]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treeby%2C%20M.%20Marschner%2C%20H.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Mobilization%20of%20iron%20and%20other%20micronutrient%20cations%20from%20a%20calcareous%20soil%20by%20plant-borne%2C%20microbial%2C%20and%20synthetic%20metal%20chelators.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20114%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treeby%2C%20M.%20Marschner%2C%20H.%20Romheld%2C%20V.%20Mobilization%20of%20iron%20and%20other%20micronutrient%20cations%20from%20a%20calcareous%20soil%20by%20plant-borne%2C%20microbial%2C%20and%20synthetic%20metal%20chelators.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20114%201989) 

[^Tye_2012_a]: Tye, D.R.C., Drake, D.C., 2012. An exotic Australian Acacia fixes more N than a coexisting indigenous Acacia in a South African riparian zone. Plant Ecology 213, 251e257. [[Tye_ExoticAustralianAcaciaFixesMore_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tye%2C%20D.R.C.%20Drake%2C%20D.C.%20An%20exotic%20Australian%20Acacia%20fixes%20more%20N%20than%20a%20coexisting%20indigenous%20Acacia%20in%20a%20South%20African%20riparian%20zone%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tye%2C%20D.R.C.%20Drake%2C%20D.C.%20An%20exotic%20Australian%20Acacia%20fixes%20more%20N%20than%20a%20coexisting%20indigenous%20Acacia%20in%20a%20South%20African%20riparian%20zone%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tye%2C%20D.R.C.%20Drake%2C%20D.C.%20An%20exotic%20Australian%20Acacia%20fixes%20more%20N%20than%20a%20coexisting%20indigenous%20Acacia%20in%20a%20South%20African%20riparian%20zone%202012)

[^Uzoh_et+al_2017_a]: Uzoh, I.M., Obalum, S.E., Igwe, C.A., Abaidoo, R.C., 2017. Quantitative separation of nitrogen and non-nitrogen rotation benefits for maize following velvet bean under selected soil management practices. Agricultural Research 6, 378e388. [[Uzoh_et+al_QuantitativeSeparationNitrogennitrogenRotation_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Uzoh%2C%20I.M.%20Obalum%2C%20S.E.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Quantitative%20separation%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20non-nitrogen%20rotation%20benefits%20for%20maize%20following%20velvet%20bean%20under%20selected%20soil%20management%20practices%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Uzoh%2C%20I.M.%20Obalum%2C%20S.E.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Quantitative%20separation%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20non-nitrogen%20rotation%20benefits%20for%20maize%20following%20velvet%20bean%20under%20selected%20soil%20management%20practices%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Uzoh%2C%20I.M.%20Obalum%2C%20S.E.%20Igwe%2C%20C.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Quantitative%20separation%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20non-nitrogen%20rotation%20benefits%20for%20maize%20following%20velvet%20bean%20under%20selected%20soil%20management%20practices%202017)

[^van_der_Laan_et+al_2017_a]: Van der Laan, M., Bristow, K.L., Stirzaker, R.J., Annandale, J.G., 2017. Towards ecologically sustainable crop production: a South African perspective. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 236, 108e119. [[van_der_Laan_et+al_TowardsEcologicallySustainableCropProduction_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20der%20Laan%2C%20M.%20Bristow%2C%20K.L.%20Stirzaker%2C%20R.J.%20Annandale%2C%20J.G.%20Towards%20ecologically%20sustainable%20crop%20production%3A%20a%20South%20African%20perspective%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20der%20Laan%2C%20M.%20Bristow%2C%20K.L.%20Stirzaker%2C%20R.J.%20Annandale%2C%20J.G.%20Towards%20ecologically%20sustainable%20crop%20production%3A%20a%20South%20African%20perspective%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20der%20Laan%2C%20M.%20Bristow%2C%20K.L.%20Stirzaker%2C%20R.J.%20Annandale%2C%20J.G.%20Towards%20ecologically%20sustainable%20crop%20production%3A%20a%20South%20African%20perspective%202017)

[^van_Vugt_et+al_2018_a]: Van Vugt, D., Franke, A.C., Giller, K.E., 2018. Understanding variability in the benefits of N2fixation in soybean-maize rotations on smallholder farmers’ fields in Malawi. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 261, 241e250. [[van_Vugt_et+al_UnderstandingVariabilityBenefitsN2fixationSoybeanmaize_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20Vugt%2C%20D.%20Franke%2C%20A.C.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Understanding%20variability%20in%20the%20benefits%20of%20N2fixation%20in%20soybean-maize%20rotations%20on%20smallholder%20farmers%E2%80%99%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20Vugt%2C%20D.%20Franke%2C%20A.C.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Understanding%20variability%20in%20the%20benefits%20of%20N2fixation%20in%20soybean-maize%20rotations%20on%20smallholder%20farmers%E2%80%99%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20Vugt%2C%20D.%20Franke%2C%20A.C.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Understanding%20variability%20in%20the%20benefits%20of%20N2fixation%20in%20soybean-maize%20rotations%20on%20smallholder%20farmers%E2%80%99%202018)

[^Venterink_2011_a]: Venterink, H.O., 2011. Legumes have a higher root phosphatase activity than other forbs, particularly under low inorganic P and N supply. Plant and Soil 347, 137e146. [[Venterink_LegumesHaveHigherRootPhosphatase_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Venterink%2C%20H.O.%20Legumes%20have%20a%20higher%20root%20phosphatase%20activity%20than%20other%20forbs%2C%20particularly%20under%20low%20inorganic%20P%20and%20N%20supply%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Venterink%2C%20H.O.%20Legumes%20have%20a%20higher%20root%20phosphatase%20activity%20than%20other%20forbs%2C%20particularly%20under%20low%20inorganic%20P%20and%20N%20supply%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Venterink%2C%20H.O.%20Legumes%20have%20a%20higher%20root%20phosphatase%20activity%20than%20other%20forbs%2C%20particularly%20under%20low%20inorganic%20P%20and%20N%20supply%202011)

[^Vieira_et+al_2009_a]: Vieira, F.C.B., Bayer, C., Zanatta, J.A., Mielniczuk, J., Six, J., 2009. Building up organic matter in a subtropical Paleudult under legume cover-crop-based rotations. Soil Science Society of America Journal 73, 1699e1706. [[Vieira_et+al_BuildingOrganicMatterSubtropicalPaleudult_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vieira%2C%20F.C.B.%20Bayer%2C%20C.%20Zanatta%2C%20J.A.%20Mielniczuk%2C%20J.%20Building%20up%20organic%20matter%20in%20a%20subtropical%20Paleudult%20under%20legume%20cover-crop-based%20rotations%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vieira%2C%20F.C.B.%20Bayer%2C%20C.%20Zanatta%2C%20J.A.%20Mielniczuk%2C%20J.%20Building%20up%20organic%20matter%20in%20a%20subtropical%20Paleudult%20under%20legume%20cover-crop-based%20rotations%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vieira%2C%20F.C.B.%20Bayer%2C%20C.%20Zanatta%2C%20J.A.%20Mielniczuk%2C%20J.%20Building%20up%20organic%20matter%20in%20a%20subtropical%20Paleudult%20under%20legume%20cover-crop-based%20rotations%202009)

[^Wagner_et+al_2018_a]: Wagner, T., Richter, J., Joubert, D.F., Fischer, C., 2018. A dominance shift in arid savannah: an herbaceous legume outcomes local C4 grasses. Ecology and Evolution 2018, 1e9. [[Wagner_et+al_DominanceShiftAridSavannahHerbaceous_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wagner%2C%20T.%20Richter%2C%20J.%20Joubert%2C%20D.F.%20Fischer%2C%20C.%20A%20dominance%20shift%20in%20arid%20savannah%3A%20an%20herbaceous%20legume%20outcomes%20local%20C4%20grasses%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagner%2C%20T.%20Richter%2C%20J.%20Joubert%2C%20D.F.%20Fischer%2C%20C.%20A%20dominance%20shift%20in%20arid%20savannah%3A%20an%20herbaceous%20legume%20outcomes%20local%20C4%20grasses%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wagner%2C%20T.%20Richter%2C%20J.%20Joubert%2C%20D.F.%20Fischer%2C%20C.%20A%20dominance%20shift%20in%20arid%20savannah%3A%20an%20herbaceous%20legume%20outcomes%20local%20C4%20grasses%202018)

[^Wang_et+al_2010_a]: Wang, F., Li, Z., Xia, H., Zou, B., Li, N., Liu, J., Zhu, W., 2010. Effects of nitrogen-fixing and non-nitrogen-fixing tree species on soil properties and nitrogen transformation during forest restoration in southern China. Soil Science & Plant Nutrition 56, 297e306. [[Wang_et+al_EffectsNitrogenfixingnitrogenfixingTreeSpecies_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20F.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Xia%2C%20H.%20Zou%2C%20B.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20and%20non-nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20species%20on%20soil%20properties%20and%20nitrogen%20transformation%20during%20forest%20restoration%20in%20southern%20China%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20F.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Xia%2C%20H.%20Zou%2C%20B.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20and%20non-nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20species%20on%20soil%20properties%20and%20nitrogen%20transformation%20during%20forest%20restoration%20in%20southern%20China%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20F.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20Xia%2C%20H.%20Zou%2C%20B.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20and%20non-nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20species%20on%20soil%20properties%20and%20nitrogen%20transformation%20during%20forest%20restoration%20in%20southern%20China%202010)

[^Wang_et+al_2017_a]: Wang, X., Deng, X., Pu, T., Song, C., Yong, T., Yang, F., Sun, X., Liu, W., Yan, Y., Du, J., Liu, J., Yang, W., 2017. Contribution of interspecific interactions and phosphorus application to increasing soil phosphorus availability in relay intercropping systems. Field Crops Research 204, 12e22. [[Wang_et+al_ContributionInterspecificInteractionsPhosphorusApplication_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20X.%20Deng%2C%20X.%20Pu%2C%20T.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Contribution%20of%20interspecific%20interactions%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20to%20increasing%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20relay%20intercropping%20systems%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20X.%20Deng%2C%20X.%20Pu%2C%20T.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Contribution%20of%20interspecific%20interactions%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20to%20increasing%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20relay%20intercropping%20systems%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20X.%20Deng%2C%20X.%20Pu%2C%20T.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Contribution%20of%20interspecific%20interactions%20and%20phosphorus%20application%20to%20increasing%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%20in%20relay%20intercropping%20systems%202017)

[^Wang_et+al_2018_a]: Wang, S., Pan, K., Tariq, A., et al., 2018. Combined effects of cropping types and simulated extreme precipitation on the community composition and diversity of soil macrofauna in the eastern Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Journal of Soils and Sediments. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11368-018-1998-z. [[Wang_et+al_CombinedEffectsCroppingTypesSimulated_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11368-018-1998-z)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1007/s11368-018-1998-z)

[^Wayman_et+al_2015_a]: Wayman, S., Cogger, C., Benedict, C., Burke, I., Collins, D., Bary, A., 2015. The influence of cover crop variety, termination timing and termination method on mulch, weed cover and soil nitrate in reduced-tillage organic systems. Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems 30, 450e460. [[Wayman_et+al_InfluenceCoverCropVarietyTermination_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wayman%2C%20S.%20Cogger%2C%20C.%20Benedict%2C%20C.%20Burke%2C%20I.%20The%20influence%20of%20cover%20crop%20variety%2C%20termination%20timing%20and%20termination%20method%20on%20mulch%2C%20weed%20cover%20and%20soil%20nitrate%20in%20reduced-tillage%20organic%20systems%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wayman%2C%20S.%20Cogger%2C%20C.%20Benedict%2C%20C.%20Burke%2C%20I.%20The%20influence%20of%20cover%20crop%20variety%2C%20termination%20timing%20and%20termination%20method%20on%20mulch%2C%20weed%20cover%20and%20soil%20nitrate%20in%20reduced-tillage%20organic%20systems%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wayman%2C%20S.%20Cogger%2C%20C.%20Benedict%2C%20C.%20Burke%2C%20I.%20The%20influence%20of%20cover%20crop%20variety%2C%20termination%20timing%20and%20termination%20method%20on%20mulch%2C%20weed%20cover%20and%20soil%20nitrate%20in%20reduced-tillage%20organic%20systems%202015)

[^Organization_2009_a]: World Health Organization, 2009. Global Health Risks: Mortality and Burden of Disease Attributable to Selected Major Risks. World Health Organization, Geneva. [[Organization_GlobalHealthRisksMortalityBurden_2009]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Organization%2C%20World%20Health%20Global%20Health%20Risks%3A%20Mortality%20and%20Burden%20of%20Disease%20Attributable%20to%20Selected%20Major%20Risks%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Organization%2C%20World%20Health%20Global%20Health%20Risks%3A%20Mortality%20and%20Burden%20of%20Disease%20Attributable%20to%20Selected%20Major%20Risks%202009) 

[^Xie_et+al_2017_a]: Xie, Z., He, Y., Tu, S., Xu, C., Liu, G., Wang, H., Cao, W., Liu, H., 2017. Chinese milk vetch improves plant growth, development and 15N recovery in the rice-based rotation system of South China. Scientific Reports. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-03919-y. [[Xie_et+al_ChineseMilkVetchImprovesPlant_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-03919-y)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/s41598-017-03919-y)

[^Xue_et+al_2016_a]: Xue, Y., Xia, H., Christie, P., Zhang, Z., Li, L., Tang, C., 2016. Crop acquisition of phosphorus, iron and zinc from soil in cereal/legume intercropping systems: a critical review. Annals of Botany. https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcv182. [[Xue_et+al_CropAcquisitionPhosphorusIronZinc_2016]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1093/aob/mcv182)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1093/aob/mcv182)

[^Yakubu_et+al_2010_a]: Yakubu, H., Kwari, J.D., Sandabe, M.K., 2010. Effect of phosphorus fertilizer on nitrogen fixation by some grain legume varieties in Sudano - Sahelian Zone of North Eastern Nigeria. Nigerian Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences 18, 19e26. [[Yakubu_et+al_EffectPhosphorusFertilizerNitrogenFixation_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yakubu%2C%20H.%20Kwari%2C%20J.D.%20Sandabe%2C%20M.K.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilizer%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20some%20grain%20legume%20varieties%20in%20Sudano%20-%20Sahelian%20Zone%20of%20North%20Eastern%20Nigeria%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yakubu%2C%20H.%20Kwari%2C%20J.D.%20Sandabe%2C%20M.K.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilizer%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20some%20grain%20legume%20varieties%20in%20Sudano%20-%20Sahelian%20Zone%20of%20North%20Eastern%20Nigeria%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yakubu%2C%20H.%20Kwari%2C%20J.D.%20Sandabe%2C%20M.K.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilizer%20on%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20some%20grain%20legume%20varieties%20in%20Sudano%20-%20Sahelian%20Zone%20of%20North%20Eastern%20Nigeria%202010)

[^Yang_et+al_2014_a]: Yang, N., Wang, Z., Gao, Y., Zhao, H., Li, K., Li, F., Malhi, S.S., 2014. Effects of planting soybean in summer fallow on wheat grain yield, total N and Zn in grain and available N and Zn in soil on the Loess Plateau of China. European Journal of Agronomy 58, 63e72. [[Yang_et+al_EffectsPlantingSoybeanSummerFallow_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yang%2C%20N.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20Zhao%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20planting%20soybean%20in%20summer%20fallow%20on%20wheat%20grain%20yield%2C%20total%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20N.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20Zhao%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20planting%20soybean%20in%20summer%20fallow%20on%20wheat%20grain%20yield%2C%20total%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yang%2C%20N.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20Zhao%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20planting%20soybean%20in%20summer%20fallow%20on%20wheat%20grain%20yield%2C%20total%202014)

[^Yusuf_et+al_2009_a]: Yusuf, A.A., Abaidoo, R.C., Iwuafor, E.N.O., Olufajo, O.O., Sanginga, N., 2009. Rotation effects of grain legumes and fallow on maize yield, microbial biomass and chemical properties of an Alfisol in the Nigerian savanna. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 129, 325e331. [[Yusuf_et+al_RotationEffectsGrainLegumesFallow_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yusuf%2C%20A.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Iwuafor%2C%20E.N.O.%20Olufajo%2C%20O.O.%20Rotation%20effects%20of%20grain%20legumes%20and%20fallow%20on%20maize%20yield%2C%20microbial%20biomass%20and%20chemical%20properties%20of%20an%20Alfisol%20in%20the%20Nigerian%20savanna%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yusuf%2C%20A.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Iwuafor%2C%20E.N.O.%20Olufajo%2C%20O.O.%20Rotation%20effects%20of%20grain%20legumes%20and%20fallow%20on%20maize%20yield%2C%20microbial%20biomass%20and%20chemical%20properties%20of%20an%20Alfisol%20in%20the%20Nigerian%20savanna%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yusuf%2C%20A.A.%20Abaidoo%2C%20R.C.%20Iwuafor%2C%20E.N.O.%20Olufajo%2C%20O.O.%20Rotation%20effects%20of%20grain%20legumes%20and%20fallow%20on%20maize%20yield%2C%20microbial%20biomass%20and%20chemical%20properties%20of%20an%20Alfisol%20in%20the%20Nigerian%20savanna%202009)

[^Zheng_et+al_2018_a]: Zheng, W., Gong, Q., Zhao, Z., Liu, J., Zhai, B., Wang, Z., Li, Z., 2018. Changes in the soil bacterial community structure and enzyme activities after intercrop mulch with cover crop for eight years in an orchard. European Journal of Soil Biology 86, 34e41. [[Zheng_et+al_ChangesSoilBacterialCommunityStructure_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zheng%2C%20W.%20Gong%2C%20Q.%20Zhao%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20Changes%20in%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20structure%20and%20enzyme%20activities%20after%20intercrop%20mulch%20with%20cover%20crop%20for%20eight%20years%20in%20an%20orchard%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zheng%2C%20W.%20Gong%2C%20Q.%20Zhao%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20Changes%20in%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20structure%20and%20enzyme%20activities%20after%20intercrop%20mulch%20with%20cover%20crop%20for%20eight%20years%20in%20an%20orchard%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zheng%2C%20W.%20Gong%2C%20Q.%20Zhao%2C%20Z.%20Liu%2C%20J.%20Changes%20in%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20structure%20and%20enzyme%20activities%20after%20intercrop%20mulch%20with%20cover%20crop%20for%20eight%20years%20in%20an%20orchard%202018)

[^Zhou_et+al_2017_a]: Zhou, Y., Zhu, H., Fu, S., Yao, Q., 2017. Metagenomic evidence of stronger effect of stylo (legume) than bahiagrass (grass) on taxonomic and functional profiles of the soil microbial community. Scientific Reports 7, 10195. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-01710613-6. [[Zhou_et+al_MetagenomicEvidenceStrongerEffectStylo_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-01710613-6)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/s41598-01710613-6)

[^Zingore_et+al_2008_a]: Zingore, S., Murwira, H.K., Delve, R.J., Giller, K.E., 2008. Variable grain legume yields, responses to phosphorus and rotational effects on maize across soil fertility gradients on African smallholder farms. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems 80, 1e18. [[Zingore_et+al_VariableGrainLegumeYieldsResponses_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zingore%2C%20S.%20Murwira%2C%20H.K.%20Delve%2C%20R.J.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Variable%20grain%20legume%20yields%2C%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20and%20rotational%20effects%20on%20maize%20across%20soil%20fertility%20gradients%20on%20African%20smallholder%20farms%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zingore%2C%20S.%20Murwira%2C%20H.K.%20Delve%2C%20R.J.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Variable%20grain%20legume%20yields%2C%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20and%20rotational%20effects%20on%20maize%20across%20soil%20fertility%20gradients%20on%20African%20smallholder%20farms%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zingore%2C%20S.%20Murwira%2C%20H.K.%20Delve%2C%20R.J.%20Giller%2C%20K.E.%20Variable%20grain%20legume%20yields%2C%20responses%20to%20phosphorus%20and%20rotational%20effects%20on%20maize%20across%20soil%20fertility%20gradients%20on%20African%20smallholder%20farms%202008)

[^Zuber_et+al_2018_a]: Zuber, S.M., Behnke, G.D., Nafziger, E.D., Villamil, M.B., 2018. Carbon and nitrogen content of soil organic matter and microbial biomass under long-term crop rotation and tillage in Illinois, USA. Agriculture. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture8030037. [[Zuber_et+al_CarbonNitrogenContentSoilOrganic_2018]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture8030037)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3390/agriculture8030037)

[^Zuo_2008_a]: Zuo, Y., Zhang, F., 2008. Effect of peanut mixed cropping with gramineous species on micronutrient concentrations and iron chlorosis of peanut plants grown in a calcareous soil. Plant and Soil 306, 23e36. [[Zuo_EffectPeanutMixedCroppingWith_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zuo%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Effect%20of%20peanut%20mixed%20cropping%20with%20gramineous%20species%20on%20micronutrient%20concentrations%20and%20iron%20chlorosis%20of%20peanut%20plants%20grown%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20306%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zuo%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Effect%20of%20peanut%20mixed%20cropping%20with%20gramineous%20species%20on%20micronutrient%20concentrations%20and%20iron%20chlorosis%20of%20peanut%20plants%20grown%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20306%202008) 

[^Jacoby_et+al_2017_a]: Jacoby, R., Peukert, M., Succurro, A., Koprivova, A., Kopriva, S., 2017. The role of soil microorganisms in plant mineral nutrition-current knowledge and future directions. Frontiers of Plant Science 8, 1617. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01617. [[Jacoby_et+al_RoleSoilMicroorganismsPlantMineral_2017]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01617)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.3389/fpls.2017.01617)

[^Lalati_et+al_2014_a]: Lalati, M., Blavet, D., Alkama, N., Laoufi, H., Drevon, J.J., Gerard, F., Pansu, M., Ounane, S.M., 2014. The intercropping of cowpea-maize improves soil phosphorus availability and maize yields in an alkaline soil. Plant and Soil 385, 181e191. [[Lalati_et+al_IntercroppingCowpeamaizeImprovesSoilPhosphorus_2014]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lalati%2C%20M.%20Blavet%2C%20D.%20Alkama%2C%20N.%20Laoufi%2C%20H.%20The%20intercropping%20of%20cowpea-maize%20improves%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%20and%20maize%20yields%20in%20an%20alkaline%20soil.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20385%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lalati%2C%20M.%20Blavet%2C%20D.%20Alkama%2C%20N.%20Laoufi%2C%20H.%20The%20intercropping%20of%20cowpea-maize%20improves%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%20and%20maize%20yields%20in%20an%20alkaline%20soil.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20385%202014) 

