[[Treseder_MetaanalysisMycorrhizalResponsesNitrogenPhosphorus_2004]]

# [A meta‐analysis of mycorrhizal responses to nitrogen, phosphorus, and atmospheric CO 2 in field studies](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01159.x)

## [[Kathleen K. Treseder]]

### 2004

## Abstract
• Numerous field studies have measured mycorrhizal dynamics under additions of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), or ==atmospheric CO2 to test the hypothesis that plants should invest in mycorrhizal fungi when soil nutrients are limiting==. • Here meta-analyses were used to integrate nutrient responses across independent field-based studies. ==Responses were compared between ecto-== and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, and among fertilizer types, methods of measurement, biomes, and lead investigators. Relationships between degree of response and study length, fertilization rates, total amounts of nutrients applied, and numbers of replicates were also tested. • Across studies, mycorrhizal abundance decreased 15% under N fertilization and 32% under P fertilization. Elevated CO2 elicited a 47% increase. Nitrogen effects varied significantly among studies, and P effects varied significantly among lead investigators. Most other factors did not affect mycorrhizal responses. • These results support the plant investment hypothesis, and suggest that global standing stocks of mycorrhizal fungi may increase substantially under elevated CO2 but decline moderately under P additions. Effects of N deposition may be ==difficult to predict for individual ecosystems==, with a slightly negative influence overall.

## Key concepts
#method/arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #finding/mycorrhizal_fungi; #finding/meta_analysis; #ecology; #method/global_change; #atmospheric_co2; #claim/dynamics; #biology; #method/nitrogen_fertilization; #soil_nutrient; #method/standard_deviation; #method/standard_errors; #nigeria; #NH4NO3; #symbiosis; #carbon_dioxide_enrichment

## Quote
> N fertilization reduced mycorrhizal abundance by an average of 15%, but with significant variation among studies


## Key points
- Since nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and carbon (C) are each required by mycorrhizal fungi, the availability of each nutrient could control mycorrhizal abundance
- One of the more widely tested hypotheses within the field of mycorrhizal ecology is that plants should invest more C in mycorrhizal fungi where N or P are limiting to plant growth, since mycorrhizal fungi contribute to nutrient uptake by plants ([^Mosse_1971_a])
- N fertilization reduced mycorrhizal abundance by an average of 15% (Fig. 1), but with significant variation among studies (QT = 100, d.f. = 30; P < 0.00001)
- A meta-analysis restricted to percentage colonization data indicated a smaller, but still significant, decrease of 5.8% (Table 2), again with significant heterogeneity among studies (QT = 84.8, d.f. = 26, P < 0.00001)
- Aspects of experimental design influenced how mycorrhizal fungi responded to N
- We found no significant effects of mycorrhizal type, fertilization type, measurement index, biome, or lead investigator (Table 2)

## Synopsis

### Summary
Numerous field studies have measured mycorrhizal dynamics under additions of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), or atmospheric CO2 to test the hypothesis that plants should invest in mycorrhizal fungi when soil nutrients are limiting. Here meta-analyses were used to integrate nutrient responses across independent field-based studies.

### Introduction
Since nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and carbon (C) are each required by mycorrhizal fungi, the availability of each nutrient could control mycorrhizal abundance.
An alternate possibility is that mycorrhizal fungi are directly limited by soil nutrient availability and should proliferate following additions of N or P ([^Treseder_2002_a])
These mechanisms apply to both arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) and ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi.
Meta-analysis provides a quantitative, statistical means of integrating independent results, and of identifying aspects of experimental design that might contribute to variation among studies ([^Gurevitch_et+al_1992_a]; [^Gurevitch_1993_a], [^Gurevitch_1999_a]; [^Arnqvist_1995_a])
This study applied this approach to a dataset compiled from 31 published N fertilization studies, 20 P fertilization studies, and 14 elevated CO2 studies.
Separate meta-analyses were conducted for N, P, and CO2

### Materials and Methods
Selection criteria Meta-analyses were performed on data acquired from published sources that met specific criteria (Table 1).
The author limited the author's data collection to results in which means, standard deviations, and replicate numbers were reported or could be determined.
This latter specification unavoidably excluded six N-fertilization studies and eight P-fertilization studies that were otherwise qualified.
Meta-analysis requires the mean, standard deviation (SD), and replicate number (n) for the control as well as the nutrient-addition treatment.
Continuous model metaanalyses was used to test for relationships between R and study length, levels of nutrient addition, total amounts of nutrients applied, the product of study length and CO2 concentration in the enriched treatment, or numbers of replicate plots.
Statistical results reported include R; 95% confidence intervals for R (CI); degrees of freedom ( d.f.); total heterogeneity in R among studies (QT); and in the case of comparisons among groups, the difference among group cumulative effect sizes (QM), and the residual error (QE) ([^Rosenberg_et+al_2000_a]</a>)

### Results
Declines in mycorrhizal abundance were slightly more pronounced under higher rates of N application (R = −2.54 × 10−4 * [rate] + 0.905, P = 0.020), two studies with application rates of 1000 kg N ha−1 h−1 ([^Hutchinson_et+al_1998_a]) had large leverage
When these two studies were omitted, no significant effects of application rate were apparent.
Response ratios did not differ between AM and ECM fungi, among type of fertilizer applied, among biomes, among measurement types, or as a function of fertilization rate, fertilization duration, total amount of P added, or replicate number.
By contrast to N and P fertilization, CO2 enrichment consistently and strongly increased mycorrhizal growth, by an average of 47% across all studies (Fig. 1), and by 36% within studies that measured percentage colonization (R = 1.36, CI of 1.11–1.68, number of studies = 12).
The authors could not test for differences among measurement types, since percentage colonization was the only metric used by more than one study

### Discussion
Results from the meta-analyses supported the hypothesis that mycorrhizal fungi are more.
Most study variables did not significantly influence mycorrhizal responses to P fertilization, in many cases the number of studies represented within groups was low (Table 2).
Tropical forests and temperate grasslands were represented by three P studies each
These small sample sizes limit the author's ability to determine whether these variables are important factors in mycorrhizal responses to P.
Anthropogenic N deposition effects might vary among ecosystems, with a slightly negative influence overall
These shifts in mycorrhizal dynamics may elicit corresponding shifts in ecosystem dynamics, including nutrient uptake by plants ([^Smith_1997_a]), trace gas emissions ([^Redeker_et+al_2004_a]), carbon sequestration in glomalin ([^Treseder_2000_a]), and aggregate formation in the soil ([^Rillig_et+al_1999_b])


## Study subjects

### 6 N-fertilization studies
- In addition, I limited my data collection to results in which means, standard deviations, and replicate numbers were reported or could be determined. ==This latter specification unavoidably excluded six N-fertilization studies and eight P-fertilization studies that were otherwise qualified==. In all cases, the unit of replication was the plot

### 31 published N fertilization studies
- Meta-analysis provides a quantitative, statistical means of integrating independent results, and of identifying aspects of experimental design that might contribute to variation among studies ([^Gurevitch_et+al_1992_a]; [^Gurevitch_1993_a], [^Gurevitch_1999_a]; [^Arnqvist_1995_a]). ==This study applied this approach to a dataset compiled from 31 published N fertilization studies, 20 P fertilization studies, and 14 elevated CO2 studies==. It focused on below-ground changes in standing crops of the fungi

### 65 cases
- Seven biomes were included in the meta-analyses, albeit unequally. ==Agricultural systems were the most common, comprising 25 of 65 cases (Table 1)==. Deserts were the least common, with one study represented

## Data analysis
- #method/random_effects_model
- #method/random_effects_models
- #method/analysis_of_variance

## Findings
- Relationships between degree of response and study length, fertilization rates, total amounts of nutrients applied, and numbers of replicates were also tested. • Across studies, mycorrhizal abundance decreased 15% under N fertilization and 32% under P fertilization
- • Across studies, mycorrhizal abundance decreased 15% under N fertilization and 32% under P fertilization
- Across studies, N fertilization reduced mycorrhizal abundance by an average of 15% (Fig. 1), but with significant variation among studies (QT = 100, d.f. = 30; P < 0.00001)
- A meta-analysis restricted to percentage colonization data indicated a smaller, but still significant, decrease of 5.8% (Table 2), again with significant heterogeneity among studies (QT = 84.8, d.f. = 26, P < 0.00001)
- Declines in mycorrhizal abundance were slightly more pronounced under higher rates of N application (R = −2.54 × 10−4 * [rate] + 0.905, P = 0.020), although two studies with application rates of 1000 kg N ha−1 h−1 ([^Hutchinson_et+al_1998_a]) had large leverage
- Replicate number was weakly negatively related to R (R = −0.0372 * [replicate number] + 0.964, P = 0.007), potentially because studies with more replicate plots also had higher rates of N additions (Table 1)
- Mycorrhizal fungi declined moderately under P fertilization, with an average reduction of 32% (Fig. 1)

## Contributions
- In summary, mycorrhizal abundance generally increases under elevated CO2 and declines in response to N and P fertilization across studies. Plants may adjust allocation of C to mycorrhizal fungi according to the degree to which plant growth is N or P limited, as hypothesized ([^Mosse_1971_a]; Read, 1991). Direct limitation of mycorrhizal fungi by soil nutrients appears to be at most a secondary control, evident in a subset of studies. In respect of environmental change, global standing stocks of mycorrhizal fungi may be substantially augmented by atmospheric CO2 enrichment and moderately reduced by P fertilization. Anthropogenic N deposition effects might vary among ecosystems, with a slightly negative influence overall. These shifts in mycorrhizal dynamics may elicit corresponding shifts in ecosystem dynamics, including nutrient uptake by plants ([^Smith_1997_a]), trace gas emissions ([^Redeker_et+al_2004_a]), carbon sequestration in glomalin ([^Treseder_2000_a]), and aggregate formation in the soil ([^Rillig_et+al_1999_b]).

## Limitations
- These small sample sizes limit my ability to determine whether these variables are important factors in mycorrhizal responses to P.

## Data and code
- Complete information is available at www.newphytologist.org


## References
[^Allen_2001_a]: Allen MF. 2001. Modeling arbuscular mycorrhizal infection: is % infection an appropriate variable? Mycorrhiza 10: 255–258. [[Allen_ModelingArbuscularMycorrhizalInfection_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Modeling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%3A%20is%20%25%20infection%20an%20appropriate%20variable%3F%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Modeling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%3A%20is%20%25%20infection%20an%20appropriate%20variable%3F%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Modeling%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%3A%20is%20%25%20infection%20an%20appropriate%20variable%3F%202001)

[^Anderson_1992_a]: Anderson RC, Liberta AE. 1992. Influence of supplemental inorganic nutrients on growth, survivorship, and mycorrhizal relationships of Schizachyrium scoparium (Poaceae) grown in fumigated and unfumigated soil. American Journal of Botany 79: 406–414. [[Anderson_InfluenceSupplementalInorganicNutrientsGrowth_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Anderson%2C%20R.C.%20Liberta%2C%20A.E.%20Influence%20of%20supplemental%20inorganic%20nutrients%20on%20growth%2C%20survivorship%2C%20and%20mycorrhizal%20relationships%20of%20Schizachyrium%20scoparium%20%28Poaceae%29%20grown%20in%20fumigated%20and%20unfumigated%20soil%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Anderson%2C%20R.C.%20Liberta%2C%20A.E.%20Influence%20of%20supplemental%20inorganic%20nutrients%20on%20growth%2C%20survivorship%2C%20and%20mycorrhizal%20relationships%20of%20Schizachyrium%20scoparium%20%28Poaceae%29%20grown%20in%20fumigated%20and%20unfumigated%20soil%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Anderson%2C%20R.C.%20Liberta%2C%20A.E.%20Influence%20of%20supplemental%20inorganic%20nutrients%20on%20growth%2C%20survivorship%2C%20and%20mycorrhizal%20relationships%20of%20Schizachyrium%20scoparium%20%28Poaceae%29%20grown%20in%20fumigated%20and%20unfumigated%20soil%201992)

[^Arnqvist_1995_a]: Arnqvist G, Wooster D. 1995. Meta-analysis: synthesizing research findings in ecology and evolution. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 10: 236 –240. [[Arnqvist_MetaanalysisSynthesizingResearchFindingsEcology_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Arnqvist%2C%20G.%20Wooster%2C%20D.%20Meta-analysis%3A%20synthesizing%20research%20findings%20in%20ecology%20and%20evolution%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Arnqvist%2C%20G.%20Wooster%2C%20D.%20Meta-analysis%3A%20synthesizing%20research%20findings%20in%20ecology%20and%20evolution%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Arnqvist%2C%20G.%20Wooster%2C%20D.%20Meta-analysis%3A%20synthesizing%20research%20findings%20in%20ecology%20and%20evolution%201995)

[^Baum_2000_a]: Baum C, Makeschin F. 2000. Effects of nitrogen and phosphorus fertilization on mycorrhizal formation of two poplar clones (Populus trichocarpa and P. tremula × tremuloides). Journal of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science 163: 491–497. [[Baum_EffectsNitrogenPhosphorusFertilizationMycorrhizal_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Baum%2C%20C.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20two%20poplar%20clones%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20and%20P.%20tremula%20%C3%97%20tremuloides%29%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Baum%2C%20C.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20two%20poplar%20clones%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20and%20P.%20tremula%20%C3%97%20tremuloides%29%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Baum%2C%20C.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20two%20poplar%20clones%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20and%20P.%20tremula%20%C3%97%20tremuloides%29%202000)

[^Baum_et+al_2002_a]: Baum C, Weih M, Verwijst T, Makeschin F. 2002. The effects of nitrogen fertilization and soil properties on mycorrhizal formation of Salix viminalis. Forest Ecology and Management 160: 35–43. [[Baum_et+al_EffectsNitrogenFertilizationSoilProperties_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Baum%2C%20C.%20Weih%2C%20M.%20Verwijst%2C%20T.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20The%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%20and%20soil%20properties%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20Salix%20viminalis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Baum%2C%20C.%20Weih%2C%20M.%20Verwijst%2C%20T.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20The%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%20and%20soil%20properties%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20Salix%20viminalis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Baum%2C%20C.%20Weih%2C%20M.%20Verwijst%2C%20T.%20Makeschin%2C%20F.%20The%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilization%20and%20soil%20properties%20on%20mycorrhizal%20formation%20of%20Salix%20viminalis%202002)

[^Bazzaz_1990_a]: Bazzaz FA. 1990. The response of natural ecosystems to the rising global CO2 levels. Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 21: 167–196. [[Bazzaz_ResponseNaturalEcosystemsRisingGlobal_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bazzaz%2C%20F.A.%20The%20response%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%20to%20the%20rising%20global%20CO2%20levels%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bazzaz%2C%20F.A.%20The%20response%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%20to%20the%20rising%20global%20CO2%20levels%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bazzaz%2C%20F.A.%20The%20response%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%20to%20the%20rising%20global%20CO2%20levels%201990)

[^Bentivenga_1992_a]: Bentivenga SP, Hetrick BAD. 1992. The effect of prairie management practices on mycorrhizal symbiosis. Mycologia 84: 522–527. [[Bentivenga_EffectPrairieManagementPracticesMycorrhizal_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bentivenga%2C%20S.P.%20Hetrick%2C%20B.A.D.%20The%20effect%20of%20prairie%20management%20practices%20on%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bentivenga%2C%20S.P.%20Hetrick%2C%20B.A.D.%20The%20effect%20of%20prairie%20management%20practices%20on%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bentivenga%2C%20S.P.%20Hetrick%2C%20B.A.D.%20The%20effect%20of%20prairie%20management%20practices%20on%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992)

[^Cornwell_et+al_2001_a]: Cornwell WK, Bedford BL, Chapin CT. 2001. Occurrence of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in a phosphorus-poor wetland and mycorrhizal response to phosphorus fertilization. American Journal of Botany 88: 1824 –1829. [[Cornwell_et+al_OccurrenceArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiPhosphoruspoor_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cornwell%2C%20W.K.%20Bedford%2C%20B.L.%20Chapin%2C%20C.T.%20Occurrence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20phosphorus-poor%20wetland%20and%20mycorrhizal%20response%20to%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cornwell%2C%20W.K.%20Bedford%2C%20B.L.%20Chapin%2C%20C.T.%20Occurrence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20phosphorus-poor%20wetland%20and%20mycorrhizal%20response%20to%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cornwell%2C%20W.K.%20Bedford%2C%20B.L.%20Chapin%2C%20C.T.%20Occurrence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20phosphorus-poor%20wetland%20and%20mycorrhizal%20response%20to%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202001)

[^Egerton-Warburton_2000_a]: Egerton-Warburton LM, Allen EB. 2000. Shifts in arbuscular mycorrhizal communities along an anthropogenic nitrogen deposition gradient. Ecological Applications 10: 484–496. [[Egerton-Warburton_ShiftsArbuscularMycorrhizalCommunitiesAlong_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Shifts%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20along%20an%20anthropogenic%20nitrogen%20deposition%20gradient%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Shifts%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20along%20an%20anthropogenic%20nitrogen%20deposition%20gradient%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Shifts%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20along%20an%20anthropogenic%20nitrogen%20deposition%20gradient%202000)

[^Ellis_et+al_1992_a]: Ellis JR, Roder W, Mason SC. 1992. Grain sorghum soybean rotation and fertilization influence on vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Science Society of America Journal 56: 789–794. [[Ellis_et+al_GrainSorghumSoybeanRotationFertilization_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ellis%2C%20JR%2C%20Roder%20W%2C%20Mason%20S.C.%20Grain%20sorghum%20soybean%20rotation%20and%20fertilization%20influence%20on%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ellis%2C%20JR%2C%20Roder%20W%2C%20Mason%20S.C.%20Grain%20sorghum%20soybean%20rotation%20and%20fertilization%20influence%20on%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ellis%2C%20JR%2C%20Roder%20W%2C%20Mason%20S.C.%20Grain%20sorghum%20soybean%20rotation%20and%20fertilization%20influence%20on%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201992)

[^Finzi_et+al_2002_a]: Finzi AC, DeLucia EH, Hamilton JG, Richter DD, Schlesinger WH. 2002. The nitrogen budget of a pine forest under free air CO2 enrichment. Oecologia 132: 567–578. [[Finzi_et+al_NitrogenBudgetPineForestUnder_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20DeLucia%2C%20E.H.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.G.%20Richter%2C%20D.D.%20The%20nitrogen%20budget%20of%20a%20pine%20forest%20under%20free%20air%20CO2%20enrichment%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20DeLucia%2C%20E.H.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.G.%20Richter%2C%20D.D.%20The%20nitrogen%20budget%20of%20a%20pine%20forest%20under%20free%20air%20CO2%20enrichment%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Finzi%2C%20A.C.%20DeLucia%2C%20E.H.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.G.%20Richter%2C%20D.D.%20The%20nitrogen%20budget%20of%20a%20pine%20forest%20under%20free%20air%20CO2%20enrichment%202002)

[^Fransson_et+al_2001_a]: Fransson PMA, Taylor AFS, Finlay RD. 2001. Elevated atmospheric CO2 alters root symbiont community structure in forest trees. New Phytologist 152: 431–442. [[Fransson_et+al_ElevatedAtmosphericCo2AltersRoot_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fransson%2C%20P.M.A.%20Taylor%2C%20A.F.S.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20alters%20root%20symbiont%20community%20structure%20in%20forest%20trees%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fransson%2C%20P.M.A.%20Taylor%2C%20A.F.S.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20alters%20root%20symbiont%20community%20structure%20in%20forest%20trees%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fransson%2C%20P.M.A.%20Taylor%2C%20A.F.S.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20alters%20root%20symbiont%20community%20structure%20in%20forest%20trees%202001)

[^Gavito_1998_a]: Gavito ME, Miller MH. 1998. Changes in mycorrhiza development in maize induced by crop management practices. Plant and Soil 198: 185– 192. [[Gavito_ChangesMycorrhizaDevelopmentMaizeInduced_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gavito%2C%20M.E.%20Miller%2C%20M.H.%20Changes%20in%20mycorrhiza%20development%20in%20maize%20induced%20by%20crop%20management%20practices.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20198%3A%20185%E2%80%93%20192%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gavito%2C%20M.E.%20Miller%2C%20M.H.%20Changes%20in%20mycorrhiza%20development%20in%20maize%20induced%20by%20crop%20management%20practices.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20198%3A%20185%E2%80%93%20192%201998) 

[^Grogan_2000_a]: Grogan P, Chapin FS. 2000. Nitrogen limitation of production in a Californian annual grassland: The contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizae. Biogeochemistry 49: 37–51. [[Grogan_NitrogenLimitationProductionCalifornianAnnual_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Grogan%2C%20P.%20Chapin%2C%20F.S.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20production%20in%20a%20Californian%20annual%20grassland%3A%20The%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grogan%2C%20P.%20Chapin%2C%20F.S.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20production%20in%20a%20Californian%20annual%20grassland%3A%20The%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Grogan%2C%20P.%20Chapin%2C%20F.S.%20Nitrogen%20limitation%20of%20production%20in%20a%20Californian%20annual%20grassland%3A%20The%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%202000)

[^Gurevitch_1999_a]: Gurevitch J, Hedges LV. 1999. Statistical issues in ecological meta-analyses. Ecology 80: 1142–1149. [[Gurevitch_StatisticalIssuesEcologicalMetaanalyses_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Statistical%20issues%20in%20ecological%20meta-analyses%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Statistical%20issues%20in%20ecological%20meta-analyses%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Statistical%20issues%20in%20ecological%20meta-analyses%201999)

[^Gurevitch_1993_a]: Gurevitch J, Hedges. 1993. Meta-analysis: Combining the results of independent experiments. In: Scheiner SM, Gurevitch J, eds. Design and analysis of ecological experiments. New York, NY, USA: Chapman & Hall. [[Gurevitch_MetaanalysisCombiningResultsIndependentExperiments_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%20Meta-analysis%3A%20Combining%20the%20results%20of%20independent%20experiments%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%20Meta-analysis%3A%20Combining%20the%20results%20of%20independent%20experiments%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Hedges%20Meta-analysis%3A%20Combining%20the%20results%20of%20independent%20experiments%201993)

[^Gurevitch_et+al_1992_a]: Gurevitch J, Morrow LL, Wallace A, Walsh JS. 1992. A meta-analysis of competition in field experiments. American Naturalist 140: 539 –572. [[Gurevitch_et+al_MetaanalysisCompetitionFieldExperiments_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Morrow%2C%20L.L.%20Wallace%2C%20A.%20Walsh%2C%20J.S.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20competition%20in%20field%20experiments%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Morrow%2C%20L.L.%20Wallace%2C%20A.%20Walsh%2C%20J.S.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20competition%20in%20field%20experiments%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Morrow%2C%20L.L.%20Wallace%2C%20A.%20Walsh%2C%20J.S.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20competition%20in%20field%20experiments%201992)

[^Hagerberg_et+al_2003_a]: Hagerberg D, Thelin G, Wallander H. 2003. The production of ectomycorrhizal mycelium in forests: Relation between forest nutrient status and local mineral sources. Plant and Soil 252: 279–290. [[Hagerberg_et+al_ProductionEctomycorrhizalMyceliumForestsRelation_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hagerberg%2C%20D.%20Thelin%2C%20G.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20The%20production%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20mycelium%20in%20forests%3A%20Relation%20between%20forest%20nutrient%20status%20and%20local%20mineral%20sources.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20252%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hagerberg%2C%20D.%20Thelin%2C%20G.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20The%20production%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20mycelium%20in%20forests%3A%20Relation%20between%20forest%20nutrient%20status%20and%20local%20mineral%20sources.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20252%202003) 

[^Hedges_et+al_1999_a]: Hedges LV, Gurevitch J, Curtis PS. 1999. The meta-analysis of response ratios in experimental ecology. Ecology 80: 1150–1156. [[Hedges_et+al_MetaanalysisResponseRatiosExperimentalEcology_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Curtis%2C%20P.S.%20The%20meta-analysis%20of%20response%20ratios%20in%20experimental%20ecology%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Curtis%2C%20P.S.%20The%20meta-analysis%20of%20response%20ratios%20in%20experimental%20ecology%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Curtis%2C%20P.S.%20The%20meta-analysis%20of%20response%20ratios%20in%20experimental%20ecology%201999)

[^Hicks_1987_a]: Hicks PM, Loynachan TE. 1987. Phosphorus fertilization reduces vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal infection and changes nodule occupancy of field grown soybean. Agronomy Journal 79: 841– 844. [[Hicks_PhosphorusFertilizationReducesVesicularArbuscular_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hicks%2C%20P.M.%20Loynachan%2C%20T.E.%20Phosphorus%20fertilization%20reduces%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20changes%20nodule%20occupancy%20of%20field%20grown%20soybean%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hicks%2C%20P.M.%20Loynachan%2C%20T.E.%20Phosphorus%20fertilization%20reduces%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20changes%20nodule%20occupancy%20of%20field%20grown%20soybean%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hicks%2C%20P.M.%20Loynachan%2C%20T.E.%20Phosphorus%20fertilization%20reduces%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20changes%20nodule%20occupancy%20of%20field%20grown%20soybean%201987)

[^Hutchinson_et+al_1998_a]: Hutchinson TC, Watmough SA, Sager EPS, Karagatzides JD. 1998. Effects of excess nitrogen deposition and soil acidification on sugar maple (Acer saccharum) in Ontario, Canada: an experimental study. Canadian Journal of Forest Research 28: 299 –310. [[Hutchinson_et+al_EffectsExcessNitrogenDepositionSoil_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hutchinson%2C%20T.C.%20Watmough%2C%20S.A.%20Sager%2C%20E.P.S.%20Karagatzides%2C%20J.D.%20Effects%20of%20excess%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20soil%20acidification%20on%20sugar%20maple%20%28Acer%20saccharum%29%20in%20Ontario%2C%20Canada%3A%20an%20experimental%20study%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hutchinson%2C%20T.C.%20Watmough%2C%20S.A.%20Sager%2C%20E.P.S.%20Karagatzides%2C%20J.D.%20Effects%20of%20excess%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20soil%20acidification%20on%20sugar%20maple%20%28Acer%20saccharum%29%20in%20Ontario%2C%20Canada%3A%20an%20experimental%20study%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hutchinson%2C%20T.C.%20Watmough%2C%20S.A.%20Sager%2C%20E.P.S.%20Karagatzides%2C%20J.D.%20Effects%20of%20excess%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20soil%20acidification%20on%20sugar%20maple%20%28Acer%20saccharum%29%20in%20Ontario%2C%20Canada%3A%20an%20experimental%20study%201998)

[^Jackson_et+al_1990_a]: Jackson RB, Manwaring JH, Caldwell MM. 1990. Rapid physiological adjustment of roots to localized soil enrichment. Nature 344: 58–60. [[Jackson_et+al_RapidPhysiologicalAdjustmentRootsLocalized_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Manwaring%2C%20J.H.%20Caldwell%2C%20M.M.%20Rapid%20physiological%20adjustment%20of%20roots%20to%20localized%20soil%20enrichment%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Manwaring%2C%20J.H.%20Caldwell%2C%20M.M.%20Rapid%20physiological%20adjustment%20of%20roots%20to%20localized%20soil%20enrichment%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Manwaring%2C%20J.H.%20Caldwell%2C%20M.M.%20Rapid%20physiological%20adjustment%20of%20roots%20to%20localized%20soil%20enrichment%201990)

[^Johnson_et+al_2003_a]: Johnson NC, Rowland DL, Corkidi L, Egerton-Warburton LM, Allen EB. 2003. Nitrogen enrichment alters mycorrhizal allocation at five mesic to semiarid grasslands. Ecology 84: 1895–1908. [[Johnson_et+al_NitrogenEnrichmentAltersMycorrhizalAllocation_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Rowland%2C%20D.L.%20Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Nitrogen%20enrichment%20alters%20mycorrhizal%20allocation%20at%20five%20mesic%20to%20semiarid%20grasslands%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Rowland%2C%20D.L.%20Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Nitrogen%20enrichment%20alters%20mycorrhizal%20allocation%20at%20five%20mesic%20to%20semiarid%20grasslands%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Rowland%2C%20D.L.%20Corkidi%2C%20L.%20Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Nitrogen%20enrichment%20alters%20mycorrhizal%20allocation%20at%20five%20mesic%20to%20semiarid%20grasslands%202003)

[^Kahiluoto_et+al_2001_a]: Kahiluoto H, Ketoja E, Vestberg M, Saarela I. 2001. Promotion of AM utilization through reduced P fertilization 2. Field studies. Plant and Soil 231: 65–79. [[Kahiluoto_et+al_PromotionAmUtilizationThroughReduced_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kahiluoto%2C%20H.%20Ketoja%2C%20E.%20Vestberg%2C%20M.%20Saarela%2C%20I.%20Promotion%20of%20AM%20utilization%20through%20reduced%20P%20fertilization%202.%20Field%20studies.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20231%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kahiluoto%2C%20H.%20Ketoja%2C%20E.%20Vestberg%2C%20M.%20Saarela%2C%20I.%20Promotion%20of%20AM%20utilization%20through%20reduced%20P%20fertilization%202.%20Field%20studies.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20231%202001) 

[^Karen_1997_a]: Karen O, Nylund JE. 1997. Effects of ammonium sulfate on the community structure and biomass of ectomycorrhizal fungi in a Norway spruce stand in southwestern Sweden. Canadian Journal of Botany 75: 1628 –1642. [[Karen_EffectsAmmoniumSulfateCommunityStructure_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karen%2C%20O.%20Nylund%2C%20J.E.%20Effects%20of%20ammonium%20sulfate%20on%20the%20community%20structure%20and%20biomass%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20Norway%20spruce%20stand%20in%20southwestern%20Sweden%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karen%2C%20O.%20Nylund%2C%20J.E.%20Effects%20of%20ammonium%20sulfate%20on%20the%20community%20structure%20and%20biomass%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20Norway%20spruce%20stand%20in%20southwestern%20Sweden%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karen%2C%20O.%20Nylund%2C%20J.E.%20Effects%20of%20ammonium%20sulfate%20on%20the%20community%20structure%20and%20biomass%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20a%20Norway%20spruce%20stand%20in%20southwestern%20Sweden%201997)

[^Kasurinen_et+al_1999_a]: Kasurinen A, Helmisaari HS, Holopainen T. 1999. The influence of elevated CO2 and O3 on fine roots and mycorrhizas of naturally growing young Scots pine trees during three exposure years. Global Change Biology 5: 771–780. [[Kasurinen_et+al_InfluenceElevatedCo2O3Fine_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kasurinen%2C%20A.%20Helmisaari%2C%20H.S.%20Holopainen%2C%20T.%20The%20influence%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20O3%20on%20fine%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20naturally%20growing%20young%20Scots%20pine%20trees%20during%20three%20exposure%20years%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kasurinen%2C%20A.%20Helmisaari%2C%20H.S.%20Holopainen%2C%20T.%20The%20influence%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20O3%20on%20fine%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20naturally%20growing%20young%20Scots%20pine%20trees%20during%20three%20exposure%20years%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kasurinen%2C%20A.%20Helmisaari%2C%20H.S.%20Holopainen%2C%20T.%20The%20influence%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20O3%20on%20fine%20roots%20and%20mycorrhizas%20of%20naturally%20growing%20young%20Scots%20pine%20trees%20during%20three%20exposure%20years%201999)

[^Langley_et+al_2003_a]: Langley JA, Dijkstra P, Drake BG, Hungate BA. 2003. Ectomycorrhizal colonization, biomass, and production in a regenerating scrub oak forest in response to elevated CO2. Ecosystems 6: 424 – 430. [[Langley_et+al_EctomycorrhizalColonizationBiomassProductionRegenerating_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Langley%2C%20J.A.%20Dijkstra%2C%20P.%20Drake%2C%20B.G.%20Hungate%2C%20B.A.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20biomass%2C%20and%20production%20in%20a%20regenerating%20scrub%20oak%20forest%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20CO2%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Langley%2C%20J.A.%20Dijkstra%2C%20P.%20Drake%2C%20B.G.%20Hungate%2C%20B.A.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20biomass%2C%20and%20production%20in%20a%20regenerating%20scrub%20oak%20forest%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20CO2%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Langley%2C%20J.A.%20Dijkstra%2C%20P.%20Drake%2C%20B.G.%20Hungate%2C%20B.A.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20biomass%2C%20and%20production%20in%20a%20regenerating%20scrub%20oak%20forest%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20CO2%202003)

[^Lansing_2003_a]: Lansing JL. 2003. Comparing arbuscular and ectomycorrhizal fungal communities in seven North American forests and their response to nitrogen fertilization. PhD Thesis. University of California, Davis, CA, USA. [[Lansing_ComparingArbuscularEctomycorrhizalFungalCommunities_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lansing%2C%20J.L.%20Comparing%20arbuscular%20and%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungal%20communities%20in%20seven%20North%20American%20forests%20and%20their%20response%20to%20nitrogen%20fertilization%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lansing%2C%20J.L.%20Comparing%20arbuscular%20and%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungal%20communities%20in%20seven%20North%20American%20forests%20and%20their%20response%20to%20nitrogen%20fertilization%202003) 

[^Lukac_et+al_2003_a]: Lukac M, Calfapietra C, Godbold DL. 2003. [[Lukac_et+al__2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lukac%20M%20Calfapietra%20C%20Godbold%20DL%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lukac%20M%20Calfapietra%20C%20Godbold%20DL%202003) 

[^Martensson_1994_a]: Martensson AM, Carlgren K. 1994. Impact of phosphorus fertilization on VAM diaspores in two Swedish long-term field experiments. Agriculture Ecosystems and Environment 47: 327–334. [[Martensson_ImpactPhosphorusFertilizationVamDiaspores_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martensson%2C%20A.M.%20Carlgren%2C%20K.%20Impact%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20VAM%20diaspores%20in%20two%20Swedish%20long-term%20field%20experiments%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martensson%2C%20A.M.%20Carlgren%2C%20K.%20Impact%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20VAM%20diaspores%20in%20two%20Swedish%20long-term%20field%20experiments%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martensson%2C%20A.M.%20Carlgren%2C%20K.%20Impact%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20on%20VAM%20diaspores%20in%20two%20Swedish%20long-term%20field%20experiments%201994)

[^Mosse_1971_a]: Mosse B, Phillips JM. 1971. The influence of phosphate and other nutrients on the development of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza in culture. Journal of General Microbiology 1971: 157–166. [[Mosse_InfluencePhosphateOtherNutrientsDevelopment_1971]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mosse%2C%20B.%20Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20The%20influence%20of%20phosphate%20and%20other%20nutrients%20on%20the%20development%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20culture%201971) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mosse%2C%20B.%20Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20The%20influence%20of%20phosphate%20and%20other%20nutrients%20on%20the%20development%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20culture%201971) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mosse%2C%20B.%20Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20The%20influence%20of%20phosphate%20and%20other%20nutrients%20on%20the%20development%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20culture%201971)

[^Oren_et+al_2001_a]: Oren R, Ellsworth DS, Johnsen KH, Phillips N, Ewers BE, Maier C, Schafer KVR, McCarthy H, Hendrey G, McNulty SG, Katul GG. 2001. Soil fertility limits carbon sequestration by forest ecosystems in a CO2enriched atmosphere. Nature 411: 469 – 472. [[Oren_et+al_SoilFertilityLimitsCarbonSequestration_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oren%2C%20R.%20Ellsworth%2C%20D.S.%20Johnsen%2C%20K.H.%20Phillips%2C%20N.%20Soil%20fertility%20limits%20carbon%20sequestration%20by%20forest%20ecosystems%20in%20a%20CO2enriched%20atmosphere%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oren%2C%20R.%20Ellsworth%2C%20D.S.%20Johnsen%2C%20K.H.%20Phillips%2C%20N.%20Soil%20fertility%20limits%20carbon%20sequestration%20by%20forest%20ecosystems%20in%20a%20CO2enriched%20atmosphere%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oren%2C%20R.%20Ellsworth%2C%20D.S.%20Johnsen%2C%20K.H.%20Phillips%2C%20N.%20Soil%20fertility%20limits%20carbon%20sequestration%20by%20forest%20ecosystems%20in%20a%20CO2enriched%20atmosphere%202001)

[^Ostertag_2001_a]: Ostertag R. 2001. Effects of nitrogen and phosphorus availability on fine-root dynamics in Hawaiian montane forests. Ecology 82: 485–499. [[Ostertag_EffectsNitrogenPhosphorusAvailabilityFineroot_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ostertag%2C%20R.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20availability%20on%20fine-root%20dynamics%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forests%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ostertag%2C%20R.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20availability%20on%20fine-root%20dynamics%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forests%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ostertag%2C%20R.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20availability%20on%20fine-root%20dynamics%20in%20Hawaiian%20montane%20forests%202001)

[^Pampolina_et+al_2002_a]: Pampolina NM, Dell B, Malajczuk N. 2002. Dynamics of ectomycorrhizal fungi in an Eucalyptus globulus plantation: effect of phosphorus fertilization. Forest Ecology and Management 158: 291–304. [[Pampolina_et+al_DynamicsEctomycorrhizalFungiEucalyptusGlobulus_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pampolina%2C%20N.M.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Malajczuk%2C%20N.%20Dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20an%20Eucalyptus%20globulus%20plantation%3A%20effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pampolina%2C%20N.M.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Malajczuk%2C%20N.%20Dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20an%20Eucalyptus%20globulus%20plantation%3A%20effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pampolina%2C%20N.M.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Malajczuk%2C%20N.%20Dynamics%20of%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20an%20Eucalyptus%20globulus%20plantation%3A%20effect%20of%20phosphorus%20fertilization%202002)

[^Pellet_1993_a]: Pellet D, El-Sharkawy MA. 1993. Cassava varietal response to phosphorus fertilization. [[Pellet_CassavaVarietalResponsePhosphorusFertilization_1993]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pellet%2C%20D.%20El-Sharkawy%2C%20M.A.%20Cassava%20varietal%20response%20to%20phosphorus%20fertilization%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pellet%2C%20D.%20El-Sharkawy%2C%20M.A.%20Cassava%20varietal%20response%20to%20phosphorus%20fertilization%201993) 

[^2]: Phosphorus uptake and use efficiency. Field Crops Research 35: 13–20. [[Phosphorus_PhosphorusUptakeEfficiency_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Phosphorus%20uptake%20and%20use%20efficiency%20Field%20Crops%20Research%2035%201320) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Phosphorus%20uptake%20and%20use%20efficiency%20Field%20Crops%20Research%2035%201320) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Phosphorus%20uptake%20and%20use%20efficiency%20Field%20Crops%20Research%2035%201320)

[^Poorter_1993_a]: Poorter H. 1993. Interspecific variation in the growth response of plants to an elevated ambient CO2 concentration. Vegetatio 104: 77–97. [[Poorter_InterspecificVariationGrowthResponsePlants_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Poorter%2C%20H.%20Interspecific%20variation%20in%20the%20growth%20response%20of%20plants%20to%20an%20elevated%20ambient%20CO2%20concentration%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Poorter%2C%20H.%20Interspecific%20variation%20in%20the%20growth%20response%20of%20plants%20to%20an%20elevated%20ambient%20CO2%20concentration%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Poorter%2C%20H.%20Interspecific%20variation%20in%20the%20growth%20response%20of%20plants%20to%20an%20elevated%20ambient%20CO2%20concentration%201993)

[^Preble_1998_a]: Preble E. 1998. Grab It! In. Raleigh, NC, USA: DataTrend Software, Inc. Read DJ. 1991. Mycorrhizas in ecosystems – Nature’s response to the ‘Law of the minimum’ In: Hawksworth DL, eds. Frontiers in mycology. Regensburg, Gemerany: CAB International, 101–130. [[Preble_GrabIt_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Preble%2C%20E.%20Grab%20It%21%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Preble%2C%20E.%20Grab%20It%21%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Preble%2C%20E.%20Grab%20It%21%201998)

[^Redeker_et+al_2004_a]: Redeker KR, Treseder KK, Allen MF. 2004. Ectomycorrhizal fungi: A new source of atmospheric methyl halides? Global Change Biology (In press.) Rey A, Barton CVM, Jarvis PG. 1997. Belowground responses to increased atmospheric CO2 concentrations in birch (Betula pendula Roth.). In: Mohren GMJ, Kramer K, Sabate S, eds. Impacts of global change on tree physiology and forest ecosystems. Proceedings of the international conference on impacts of global change on tree physiology and forest ecosystems, held 26 –29 November 1996, Wageningen, The Netherlands. Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 207–212. [[Redeker_et+al_EctomycorrhizalFungiSourceAtmosphericMethyl_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Redeker%2C%20K.R.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20A%20new%20source%20of%20atmospheric%20methyl%20halides%3F%20Global%20Change%20Biology%20%28In%20press.%29%20Rey%202004-11) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Redeker%2C%20K.R.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20A%20new%20source%20of%20atmospheric%20methyl%20halides%3F%20Global%20Change%20Biology%20%28In%20press.%29%20Rey%202004-11) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Redeker%2C%20K.R.%20Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20A%20new%20source%20of%20atmospheric%20methyl%20halides%3F%20Global%20Change%20Biology%20%28In%20press.%29%20Rey%202004-11)

[^Rillig_et+al_1999_a]: Rillig MC, Field CB, Allen MF. 1999a. Soil biota responses to long-term atmospheric CO2 enrichment in two California annual grasslands. Oecologia (Berlin) 119: 572–577. [[Rillig_et+al_SoilBiotaResponsesLongtermAtmospheric_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Soil%20biota%20responses%20to%20long-term%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20in%20two%20California%20annual%20grasslands%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Soil%20biota%20responses%20to%20long-term%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20in%20two%20California%20annual%20grasslands%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Soil%20biota%20responses%20to%20long-term%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20in%20two%20California%20annual%20grasslands%201999)

[^Rillig_et+al_2000_a]: Rillig MC, Hernandez GY, Newton PCD. 2000. Arbuscular mycorrhizae respond to elevated atmospheric CO2 after long-term exposure: evidence from a CO2 spring in New Zealand supports the resource balance model. Ecology Letters 3: 475–478. [[Rillig_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeRespondElevatedAtmospheric_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.Y.%20Newton%2C%20P.C.D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20respond%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20after%20long-term%20exposure%3A%20evidence%20from%20a%20CO2%20spring%20in%20New%20Zealand%20supports%20the%20resource%20balance%20model%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.Y.%20Newton%2C%20P.C.D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20respond%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20after%20long-term%20exposure%3A%20evidence%20from%20a%20CO2%20spring%20in%20New%20Zealand%20supports%20the%20resource%20balance%20model%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.Y.%20Newton%2C%20P.C.D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20respond%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20after%20long-term%20exposure%3A%20evidence%20from%20a%20CO2%20spring%20in%20New%20Zealand%20supports%20the%20resource%20balance%20model%202000)

[^Rillig_et+al_1999_b]: Rillig MC, Wright SF, Allen MF, Field CB. 1999b. Long-term CO2 elevation affects soil structure of natural ecosystems. Nature 400: 628. [[Rillig_et+al_LongtermCo2ElevationAffectsSoil_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Long-term%20CO2%20elevation%20affects%20soil%20structure%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Long-term%20CO2%20elevation%20affects%20soil%20structure%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Long-term%20CO2%20elevation%20affects%20soil%20structure%20of%20natural%20ecosystems%201999)

[^Rillig_et+al_2001_a]: Rillig MC, Wright SF, Kimball BA, Pinter PJ, Wall GW, Ottman MJ, Leavitt SW. 2001. Elevated carbon dioxide and irrigation effects on water stable aggregates in a Sorghum field: a possible role for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Global Change Biology 7: 333–337. [[Rillig_et+al_ElevatedCarbonDioxideIrrigationEffects_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Kimball%2C%20B.A.%20Pinter%2C%20P.J.%20Elevated%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20irrigation%20effects%20on%20water%20stable%20aggregates%20in%20a%20Sorghum%20field%3A%20a%20possible%20role%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Kimball%2C%20B.A.%20Pinter%2C%20P.J.%20Elevated%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20irrigation%20effects%20on%20water%20stable%20aggregates%20in%20a%20Sorghum%20field%3A%20a%20possible%20role%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Kimball%2C%20B.A.%20Pinter%2C%20P.J.%20Elevated%20carbon%20dioxide%20and%20irrigation%20effects%20on%20water%20stable%20aggregates%20in%20a%20Sorghum%20field%3A%20a%20possible%20role%20for%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001)

[^Rogers_et+al_1992_a]: Rogers HH, Prior SA, O’Neill EG. 1992. Cotton roots and rhizosphere responses to free-air CO2 enrichment. Critical Reviews of Plant Science 11: 251–263. [[Rogers_et+al_CottonRootsRhizosphereResponsesFree_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Prior%2C%20S.A.%20O%E2%80%99Neill%2C%20E.G.%20Cotton%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20responses%20to%20free-air%20CO2%20enrichment%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Prior%2C%20S.A.%20O%E2%80%99Neill%2C%20E.G.%20Cotton%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20responses%20to%20free-air%20CO2%20enrichment%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Prior%2C%20S.A.%20O%E2%80%99Neill%2C%20E.G.%20Cotton%20roots%20and%20rhizosphere%20responses%20to%20free-air%20CO2%20enrichment%201992)

[^Rogers_et+al_1994_a]: Rogers HH, Runion GB, Krupa SV. 1994. Plant responses to atmospheric CO2 enrichment with emphasis on roots and the rhizosphere. Environmental Pollution 83: 155–189. [[Rogers_et+al_PlantResponsesAtmosphericCo2Enrichment_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Runion%2C%20G.B.%20Krupa%2C%20S.V.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20with%20emphasis%20on%20roots%20and%20the%20rhizosphere%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Runion%2C%20G.B.%20Krupa%2C%20S.V.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20with%20emphasis%20on%20roots%20and%20the%20rhizosphere%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rogers%2C%20H.H.%20Runion%2C%20G.B.%20Krupa%2C%20S.V.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20atmospheric%20CO2%20enrichment%20with%20emphasis%20on%20roots%20and%20the%20rhizosphere%201994)

[^Rosenberg_et+al_2000_a]: Rosenberg MS, Adams DC, Gurevitch J. 2000. MetaWin: Statistical software for meta-analysis. Sunderland, MA, USA: Sinauer Associates. Runion GB, Curl EA, Rogers HH, Backman PA, Rodriguezkabana R, Helms BE. 1994. Effects of free-air CO2 enrichment on microbial populations in the rhizosphere and phyllosphere of cotton. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 70: 117–130. [[Rosenberg_et+al_MetawinStatisticalSoftwareMetaanalysis_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20Adams%2C%20D.C.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20MetaWin%3A%20Statistical%20software%20for%20meta-analysis%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20Adams%2C%20D.C.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20MetaWin%3A%20Statistical%20software%20for%20meta-analysis%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20Adams%2C%20D.C.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20MetaWin%3A%20Statistical%20software%20for%20meta-analysis%202000)

[^Sanginga_et+al_1996_a]: Sanginga N, Okogun JA, Akobundu IO, Kang BT. 1996. Phosphorus requirement and nodulation of herbaceous and shrub legumes in low P soils of a Guinean savanna in Nigeria. Applied Soil Ecology 3: 247–255. [[Sanginga_et+al_PhosphorusRequirementNodulationHerbaceousShrub_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sanginga%2C%20N.%20Okogun%2C%20J.A.%20Akobundu%2C%20I.O.%20Kang%2C%20B.T.%20Phosphorus%20requirement%20and%20nodulation%20of%20herbaceous%20and%20shrub%20legumes%20in%20low%20P%20soils%20of%20a%20Guinean%20savanna%20in%20Nigeria%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanginga%2C%20N.%20Okogun%2C%20J.A.%20Akobundu%2C%20I.O.%20Kang%2C%20B.T.%20Phosphorus%20requirement%20and%20nodulation%20of%20herbaceous%20and%20shrub%20legumes%20in%20low%20P%20soils%20of%20a%20Guinean%20savanna%20in%20Nigeria%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sanginga%2C%20N.%20Okogun%2C%20J.A.%20Akobundu%2C%20I.O.%20Kang%2C%20B.T.%20Phosphorus%20requirement%20and%20nodulation%20of%20herbaceous%20and%20shrub%20legumes%20in%20low%20P%20soils%20of%20a%20Guinean%20savanna%20in%20Nigeria%201996)

[^Schlesinger_2001_a]: Schlesinger WH, Lichter J. 2001. Limited carbon storage in soil and litter of experimental forest plots under increased atmospheric CO2. Nature 411: 466–469. [[Schlesinger_LimitedCarbonStorageSoilLitter_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schlesinger%2C%20W.H.%20Lichter%2C%20J.%20Limited%20carbon%20storage%20in%20soil%20and%20litter%20of%20experimental%20forest%20plots%20under%20increased%20atmospheric%20CO2%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schlesinger%2C%20W.H.%20Lichter%2C%20J.%20Limited%20carbon%20storage%20in%20soil%20and%20litter%20of%20experimental%20forest%20plots%20under%20increased%20atmospheric%20CO2%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schlesinger%2C%20W.H.%20Lichter%2C%20J.%20Limited%20carbon%20storage%20in%20soil%20and%20litter%20of%20experimental%20forest%20plots%20under%20increased%20atmospheric%20CO2%202001)

[^Smith_1997_a]: Smith SE, Read DJ. 1997. Mycorrhizal symbiosis, 2nd edn. San Diego, CA, USA: Academic Press. Staddon PL, Fitter AH. 1998. Does elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide affect arbuscular mycorrhizas? Trends in Ecology and Evolution 13: 455–458. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201997)

[^Termorshuizen_1993_a]: Termorshuizen AJ. 1993. The influence of nitrogen fertilizers on ectomycorrhizas and their fungal carpophores in young stands of Pinus sylvestris. Forest Ecology and Management 57: 179–189. [[Termorshuizen_InfluenceNitrogenFertilizersEctomycorrhizasTheir_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Termorshuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20on%20ectomycorrhizas%20and%20their%20fungal%20carpophores%20in%20young%20stands%20of%20Pinus%20sylvestris%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Termorshuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20on%20ectomycorrhizas%20and%20their%20fungal%20carpophores%20in%20young%20stands%20of%20Pinus%20sylvestris%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Termorshuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20nitrogen%20fertilizers%20on%20ectomycorrhizas%20and%20their%20fungal%20carpophores%20in%20young%20stands%20of%20Pinus%20sylvestris%201993)

[^Thomson_et+al_1992_a]: Thomson BD, Robson AD, Abbott LK. 1992. The effect of long term applications of phosphorus fertilizer on populations of vesicular arbuscular www.newphytologist.org © New Phytologist (2004) [[Thomson_et+al_EffectLongTermApplicationsPhosphorus_1992]] [OA](http://www.newphytologist.org)  

[^mycorrhizal_0000_b]: mycorrhizal fungi in pastures. Australian Journal of Agricultural Research 43: 1131–1142. [[mycorrhizal_MycorrhizalFungiPastures_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20pastures%20Australian%20Journal%20of%20Agricultural%20Research%2043%2011311142) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20pastures%20Australian%20Journal%20of%20Agricultural%20Research%2043%2011311142) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=mycorrhizal%20fungi%20in%20pastures%20Australian%20Journal%20of%20Agricultural%20Research%2043%2011311142)

[^Treseder_2000_a]: Treseder KK, Allen MF. 2000. Mycorrhizal fungi have a potential role in soil carbon storage under elevated CO2 and nitrogen deposition. New Phytologist 147: 189 –200. [[Treseder_MycorrhizalFungiHavePotentialRole_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20have%20a%20potential%20role%20in%20soil%20carbon%20storage%20under%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20nitrogen%20deposition%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20have%20a%20potential%20role%20in%20soil%20carbon%20storage%20under%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20nitrogen%20deposition%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20have%20a%20potential%20role%20in%20soil%20carbon%20storage%20under%20elevated%20CO2%20and%20nitrogen%20deposition%202000)

[^Treseder_2002_a]: Treseder KK, Allen MF. 2002. Direct N and P limitation of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: a model and field test. New Phytologist 155: 507–515. [[Treseder_DirectNPLimitationArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Direct%20N%20and%20P%20limitation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20model%20and%20field%20test%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Direct%20N%20and%20P%20limitation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20model%20and%20field%20test%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Allen%2C%20M.F.%20Direct%20N%20and%20P%20limitation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20model%20and%20field%20test%202002)

[^Treseder_2001_a]: Treseder KK, Vitousek PM. 2001. Effects of soil nutrient availability on investment in acquisition of N and P in Hawaiian rain forests. Ecology 82: 946 –954. [[Treseder_EffectsSoilNutrientAvailabilityInvestment_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Effects%20of%20soil%20nutrient%20availability%20on%20investment%20in%20acquisition%20of%20N%20and%20P%20in%20Hawaiian%20rain%20forests%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Effects%20of%20soil%20nutrient%20availability%20on%20investment%20in%20acquisition%20of%20N%20and%20P%20in%20Hawaiian%20rain%20forests%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Effects%20of%20soil%20nutrient%20availability%20on%20investment%20in%20acquisition%20of%20N%20and%20P%20in%20Hawaiian%20rain%20forests%202001)

[^Vanlauwe_et+al_2000_a]: Vanlauwe B, Nwoke OC, Diels J, Sanginga N, Carsky RJ, Deckers J, Merckx R. 2000. Utilization of rock phosphate by crops on a representative toposequence in the Northern Guinea savanna zone of Nigeria: response by Mucuna pruriens, Lablab purpureus and maize. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 32: 2063–2077. [[Vanlauwe_et+al_UtilizationRockPhosphateCropsRepresentative_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Nwoke%2C%20O.C.%20Diels%2C%20J.%20Sanginga%2C%20N.%20Utilization%20of%20rock%20phosphate%20by%20crops%20on%20a%20representative%20toposequence%20in%20the%20Northern%20Guinea%20savanna%20zone%20of%20Nigeria%3A%20response%20by%20Mucuna%20pruriens%2C%20Lablab%20purpureus%20and%20maize.%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry%2032%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vanlauwe%2C%20B.%20Nwoke%2C%20O.C.%20Diels%2C%20J.%20Sanginga%2C%20N.%20Utilization%20of%20rock%20phosphate%20by%20crops%20on%20a%20representative%20toposequence%20in%20the%20Northern%20Guinea%20savanna%20zone%20of%20Nigeria%3A%20response%20by%20Mucuna%20pruriens%2C%20Lablab%20purpureus%20and%20maize.%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry%2032%202000) 

[^Vitousek_1994_a]: Vitousek PM. 1994. Beyond global warming: Ecology and global change. Ecology 75: 1861–1876. [[Vitousek_BeyondGlobalWarmingEcologyGlobal_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Beyond%20global%20warming%3A%20Ecology%20and%20global%20change%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Beyond%20global%20warming%3A%20Ecology%20and%20global%20change%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Beyond%20global%20warming%3A%20Ecology%20and%20global%20change%201994)

[^Papers_2003_a]: Regular papers, Letters, Research reviews, Rapid reports and Methods papers are encouraged. We are committed to rapid processing, from online submission through to publication ‘as-ready’ via OnlineEarly – the 2003 average submission to decision time was just 35 days. Online-only colour is free, and essential print colour costs will be met if necessary. We also provide 25 offprints as well as a PDF for each article. [[Papers_ResearchReviewsRapidReportsMethods_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Regular%20papers%20Letters%20Research%20reviews%20Rapid%20reports%20and%20Methods%20papers%20are%20encouraged%20We%20are%20committed%20to%20rapid%20processing%20from%20online%20submission%20through%20to%20publication%20asready%20via%20OnlineEarly%20%20the%202003%20average%20submission%20to%20decision%20time%20was%20just%2035%20days%20Onlineonly%20colour%20is%20free%20and%20essential%20print%20colour%20costs%20will%20be%20met%20if%20necessary%20We%20also%20provide%2025%20offprints%20as%20well%20as%20a%20PDF%20for%20each%20article) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Regular%20papers%20Letters%20Research%20reviews%20Rapid%20reports%20and%20Methods%20papers%20are%20encouraged%20We%20are%20committed%20to%20rapid%20processing%20from%20online%20submission%20through%20to%20publication%20asready%20via%20OnlineEarly%20%20the%202003%20average%20submission%20to%20decision%20time%20was%20just%2035%20days%20Onlineonly%20colour%20is%20free%20and%20essential%20print%20colour%20costs%20will%20be%20met%20if%20necessary%20We%20also%20provide%2025%20offprints%20as%20well%20as%20a%20PDF%20for%20each%20article) 

