[[Wang_et+al_NutrientExchangeRegulationArbuscularMycorrhizal_2017]]

# [Nutrient Exchange and Regulation in Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.molp.2017.07.012)

## [[Wanxiao Wang]]; [[Jincai Shi]]; [[Qiujin Xie]] et al.

### 2017

## Abstract
Most land plants form symbiotic associations with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. These are the most common and widespread terrestrial plant symbioses, ==which have a global impact on plant mineral nutrition==. The establishment of AM symbiosis involves recognition of the two partners and bidirectional transport of different mineral and carbon nutrients through the symbiotic interfaces within the host root cells. Intriguingly, ==recent discoveries have highlighted that lipids are transferred from the plant host to AM fungus== as a major carbon source. In this review, we discuss the transporter-mediated transfer of carbon, nitrogen, phosphate, potassium and sulfate, and ==present hypotheses pertaining to the potential regulatory mechanisms of nutrient exchange== in AM symbiosis. Current challenges and future perspectives on AM symbiosis research are also discussed.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #symbiosis; #sucrose; #glomus; #acyl_carrier_protein; #ammonium; #metabolism; #fatty_acid_synthase; #lotus_japonicus; #claim/mineral_nutrient; #trifolium_subterraneum; #plant_root; #N_15; #rhizophagus_irregularis; #carbon_source; #claim/land_plant; #amino_acids; #petunia_hybrida; #C_14; #P_32; #fungal_spore; #acetyl_coa_carboxylase

## Quote
> Future efforts should focus on examining the regulation of nutrient exchange between plant hosts and Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, which would enable a better understanding of the complex transport mechanisms in AM symbiosis


## Key points
- Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis is the most common plant symbiosis known, occurring in at least 80% of vascular plant families
- Plant hosts supply AM fungi with a carbon source that is essential for fungal growth
- AM fungi release Myc factors that can be recognized by plant potential receptors ([^de_Mita_et+al_2014_a]; [^den_Camp_et+al_2011_a]; [^Miyata_et+al_2014_a]; [^Zhang_et+al_2015_a]) and activate a common symbiosis signaling pathway shared by AM symbiosis and root nodulation symbiosis ([^Oldroyd_2013_a])
- Arbuscules are surrounded by peri-arbuscular membrane (PAM), the continuous plant plasma membrane that separates arbuscule from the plant cytoplasm ([^Parniske_2008_a])
- The root systems of most land plants form AM symbioses, which contribute to plant nutrient uptake
- Future efforts should focus on examining the regulation of nutrient exchange between plant hosts and AM fungi, which would enable a better understanding of the complex transport mechanisms in AM symbiosis

## Synopsis
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis is the most common plant symbiosis known, occurring in at least 80% of vascular plant families.
Mineral nutrients such as phosphorus and nitrogen are transported from AM fungi to plant hosts across the symbiotic interface ([^Bonfante_2010_a]).
The newly identified SWEET family of transporters in potato were recently characterized and showed differential expression in response to AM fungi, suggesting that SWEET transporters might regulate sugar export toward the symbiotic interface ([^Manck-Gotzenberger_2016_a]).
The carbon obtained by AM fungi from host plants must be transported from the intraradical mycelium (IRM) to the extraradical mycelium (ERM) to support the development of hyphae and production of spores.
Expression analysis revealed AM-inducible phosphate transporters (PTs) in different host plants (Table 1), such as StPT3 in potato, MtPT4 in M. truncatula, and OsPT11 in rice ([^Rausch_et+al_2001_a]; [^Harrison_et+al_2002_a]; [^Paszkowski_et+al_2002_a]; [^Javot_et+al_2007_a]).
The expression of these genes is not reduced in Ospt11 phosphate transporter mutants, suggesting an elaborate regulation of Pi acquisition via the direct pathway by the mycorrhizal pathway ([^Yang_et+al_2012_a]), but the molecular mechanisms remain unknown.
This finding suggests that, in addition to NH4+, NH3 might be released in the symbiotic interface by mycorrhizal fungi and taken up by plant hosts ([^Guether_et+al_2009_a]).
AM fungi can increase host plant uptake of K, and modulate plant responses to long-term K limitation, by preventing ROS production and upregulating specific genes, including an ortholog of the plasma membrane K+/H+ exchanger AtCHX20 in M. truncatula.
In a proposed model of the C-Pi exchange during AM symbiosis, fungi invade the roots and begin to form arbuscules in cortical cells, and Pi from the fungi is transported across the peri-arbuscular membrane to plant cells.
AM fungi accumulate higher concentrations of Pi in hyphae under low carbon availability from plant hosts, resulting in reduced roots biomass and ERM biomass ([^Hammer_et+al_2011_a]).
Increased C availability from host plants to AM fungi can trigger uptake and transport of N in AM symbiosis, and the increased N uptake and transport is consistent with fungal gene expression levels ([^Fellbaum_et+al_2012_a]).
Fatty acids might be the major form of carbon transferred from plant hosts to AM fungi, and transfer is likely tightly regulated.
Future efforts should focus on examining the regulation of nutrient exchange between plant hosts and AM fungi, which would enable a better understanding of the complex transport mechanisms in AM symbiosis.
This knowledge is of great importance for the agriculture and environment

## Findings
- Up to 20% of photoassimilates in host plants flow to mycorrhizal root systems to support the mutualistic interaction ([^Bago_et+al_2000_a])
- Lipids comprise up to 95% of spore dry weight in AM fungi, depending on the species ([^Beilby_1980_a]; [^Beilby_1983_a]; [^Jabajihare_1988_a]; [^Becard_et+al_1991_a])
- Furthermore, lipids have also been shown to constitute up to 47% of hyphal volume in some regions of the ERM ([^Bago_et+al_2002_a]) and up to 58% of dry weight in intraradical vesicles ([^Jabajihare_et+al_1984_a])

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- A similar reward mechanism also controls C-N exchange during AM symbiosis. ==Increased C availability from host plants to AM fungi can trigger uptake and transport of N in AM symbiosis, and the increased N uptake and transport is consistent with fungal gene expression levels== ([^Fellbaum_et+al_2012_a])

## Future work
- Metal ions are absorbed by the ERM; metal ion transporters in host plants and AM fungi require further study.
- Further studies suggested that GigmPT might function in both in transport reuptake and phosphate sensing as transceptor during AM symbiosis ([^Xie_et+al_2016_a]).
- Further studies revealed that AM fungi can affect the uptake of heavy metals in bean and maize plants. Several heavy metals were investigated, including Cd, Zn, Cu, Pb, Mn, and Ni. For plants grown in polluted soils, Cd, Cu, Zn, and Mn concentrations were significantly lower in the mycorrhizal plants than that in the non-mycorrhizal plants, suggesting that mycorrhizal colonization protects roots against metal toxicity ([^Weissenhorn_et+al_1995_a]; [^Guo_et+al_1996_a]). Under elevated Pb conditions, AM fungi could promote plant growth by increasing Pi uptake and providing protection against Pb toxicity ([^Chen_et+al_2005_a]). Arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelium can bind heavy metals, and AM fungi may be able to survive in heavy-metal-contaminated environments. These features of AM fungi are important for soil reclamation and plant resistance to heavy metals ([^Joner_et+al_2000_a]; [^Pawlowska_2004_a]; [^Gohre_2006_a]; [^Hildebrandt_et+al_2007_a]). A putative Zn transporter (GintZnT1) was isolated from the extraradical mycelium of Glomus intraradices. Analysis of this transporter revealed that GintZnT1 may function in general zinc homeostasis or in supplying zinc to host plants ([^Gonzalez-Guerrero_et+al_2005_a]). Lemt2 (encodes a metallothionein) and LeNramp1 (encodes a broad range metal ions transporter) were downregulated in tomato colonized by AM fungi (Table 1), indicating a potential role for AM colonization in protection against metal toxicity under heavy metal stress ([^Ouziad_et+al_2005_a]). Additional metal ion transporters involved in AM symbiosis will likely be identified in the future.


## References
[^Doidy_2012_a]: Doidy et al. (2012); Gaude et al. (2012) Boldt et al. (2011) Manck-Gotzenberger and Requena (2016) Zhang et al. (2010); Jiang et al. (2017) Gutjahr et al. (2012) Rausch et al. (2001) Harrison et al. (2002); BreuillinSessoms et al. (2015) Paszkowski et al. (2002) Volpe et al. (2016) Breuillin et al. (2010) Kobae et al. (2010) Breuillin-Sessoms et al. (2015) Guether et al. (2009) Garcia et al. (2017) Casieri et al. (2012); Sieh et al. (2013); Wipf et al. (2014) Giovannetti et al. (2014) Ouziad et al. (2005) [[Doidy_ManckgotzenbergerRequena_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Doidy%20Manck-Gotzenberger%20and%20Requena%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Doidy%20Manck-Gotzenberger%20and%20Requena%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Doidy%20Manck-Gotzenberger%20and%20Requena%202012)

[^Schussler_2006_a]: Schussler et al. (2006) Helber et al. (2011) Harrison and Vanbuuren (1995) Maldonado-Mendoza et al. (2001) Balestrini et al. (2007) Xie et al. (2016) Lopez-Pedrosa et al. (2006); PerezTienda et al. (2011); Calabrese et al. (2016) Gonzalez-Guerrero et al. (2005) [[Schussler_HarrisonVanbuuren_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schussler%20Harrison%20and%20Vanbuuren%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schussler%20Harrison%20and%20Vanbuuren%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schussler%20Harrison%20and%20Vanbuuren%202006)

[^Bago_et+al_2000_a]: Bago, B., Pfeffer, P.E., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2000). Carbon metabolism and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas. Plant Physiol. 124:949–957. [[Bago_et+al_CarbonMetabolismTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000)

[^Bago_et+al_2002_a]: Bago, B., Zipfel, W., Williams, R.M., Jun, J., Arreola, R., Lammers, P.J., Pfeffer, P.E., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2002). Translocation and utilization of fungal storage lipid in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Physiol. 128:108–124. [[Bago_et+al_TranslocationUtilizationFungalStorageLipid_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Zipfel%2C%20W.%20Williams%2C%20R.M.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20storage%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Zipfel%2C%20W.%20Williams%2C%20R.M.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20storage%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Zipfel%2C%20W.%20Williams%2C%20R.M.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Translocation%20and%20utilization%20of%20fungal%20storage%20lipid%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002)

[^Bago_et+al_2003_a]: Bago, B., Pfeffer, P.E., Abubaker, J., Jun, J., Allen, J.W., Brouillette, J., Douds, D.D., Lammers, P.J., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2003). Carbon export from arbuscular mycorrhizal roots involves the translocation of carbohydrate as well as lipid. Plant Physiol. 131:1496–1507. [[Bago_et+al_CarbonExportFromArbuscularMycorrhizal_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Jun%2C%20J.%20Carbon%20export%20from%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20involves%20the%20translocation%20of%20carbohydrate%20as%20well%20as%20lipid%202003)

[^Balestrini_et+al_2007_a]: Balestrini, R., Gomez-Ariza, J., Lanfranco, L., and Bonfante, P. (2007). Laser microdissection reveals that transcripts for five plant and one fungal phosphate transporter genes are contemporaneously present in arbusculated cells. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 20:1055–1062. [[Balestrini_et+al_LaserMicrodissectionRevealsThatTranscripts_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Gomez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Laser%20microdissection%20reveals%20that%20transcripts%20for%20five%20plant%20and%20one%20fungal%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20are%20contemporaneously%20present%20in%20arbusculated%20cells%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Gomez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Laser%20microdissection%20reveals%20that%20transcripts%20for%20five%20plant%20and%20one%20fungal%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20are%20contemporaneously%20present%20in%20arbusculated%20cells%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Gomez-Ariza%2C%20J.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Laser%20microdissection%20reveals%20that%20transcripts%20for%20five%20plant%20and%20one%20fungal%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20are%20contemporaneously%20present%20in%20arbusculated%20cells%202007)

[^Balzergue_et+al_2013_a]: Balzergue, C., Chabaud, M., Barker, D.G., Becard, G., and Rochange, S.F. (2013). High phosphate reduces host ability to develop arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis without affecting root calcium spiking responses to the fungus. Front. Plant Sci. 4:426. [[Balzergue_et+al_HighPhosphateReducesHostAbility_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.G.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.G.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Balzergue%2C%20C.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Barker%2C%20D.G.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20High%20phosphate%20reduces%20host%20ability%20to%20develop%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20without%20affecting%20root%20calcium%20spiking%20responses%20to%20the%20fungus%202013)

[^Becard_et+al_1991_a]: Becard, G., Doner, L.W., Rolin, D.B., Douds, D.D., and Pfeffer, P.E. (1991). Identification and quantification of trehalose in vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal fungi by in vivo C-13 NMR and HPLC analyses. New Phytol. 118:547–552. [[Becard_et+al_IdentificationQuantificationTrehaloseVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becard%2C%20G.%20Doner%2C%20L.W.%20Rolin%2C%20D.B.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Identification%20and%20quantification%20of%20trehalose%20in%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20by%20in%20vivo%20C-13%20NMR%20and%20HPLC%20analyses%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becard%2C%20G.%20Doner%2C%20L.W.%20Rolin%2C%20D.B.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Identification%20and%20quantification%20of%20trehalose%20in%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20by%20in%20vivo%20C-13%20NMR%20and%20HPLC%20analyses%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becard%2C%20G.%20Doner%2C%20L.W.%20Rolin%2C%20D.B.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Identification%20and%20quantification%20of%20trehalose%20in%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20by%20in%20vivo%20C-13%20NMR%20and%20HPLC%20analyses%201991)

[^Beilby_1983_a]: Beilby, J.P. (1983). Effects of inhibitors on early protein, RNA, and lipidsynthesis in germinating vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal spores of Glomus caledonium. Can. J. Microbiol. 29:596–601. [[Beilby_EffectsInhibitorsEarlyProteinRna_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20inhibitors%20on%20early%20protein%2C%20RNA%2C%20and%20lipidsynthesis%20in%20germinating%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20of%20Glomus%20caledonium%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20inhibitors%20on%20early%20protein%2C%20RNA%2C%20and%20lipidsynthesis%20in%20germinating%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20of%20Glomus%20caledonium%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20inhibitors%20on%20early%20protein%2C%20RNA%2C%20and%20lipidsynthesis%20in%20germinating%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20spores%20of%20Glomus%20caledonium%201983)

[^Beilby_1980_a]: Beilby, J.P., and Kidby, D.K. (1980). Biochemistry of ungerminated and germinated spores of the vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus caledonius - changes in neutral and polar lipids. J. Lipid Res. 21:739–750. [[Beilby_BiochemistryUngerminatedGerminatedSporesVesiculararbuscular_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Kidby%2C%20D.K.%20Biochemistry%20of%20ungerminated%20and%20germinated%20spores%20of%20the%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Glomus%20caledonius%20-%20changes%20in%20neutral%20and%20polar%20lipids%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Kidby%2C%20D.K.%20Biochemistry%20of%20ungerminated%20and%20germinated%20spores%20of%20the%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Glomus%20caledonius%20-%20changes%20in%20neutral%20and%20polar%20lipids%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beilby%2C%20J.P.%20Kidby%2C%20D.K.%20Biochemistry%20of%20ungerminated%20and%20germinated%20spores%20of%20the%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Glomus%20caledonius%20-%20changes%20in%20neutral%20and%20polar%20lipids%201980)

[^Blanke_et+al_2005_a]: Blanke, V., Renker, C., Wagner, M., Fullner, K., Held, M., Kuhn, A.J., and Buscot, F. (2005). Nitrogen supply affects arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization of Artemisia vulgaris in a phosphate-polluted field site. New Phytol. 166:981–992. [[Blanke_et+al_NitrogenSupplyAffectsArbuscularMycorrhizal_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Blanke%2C%20V.%20Renker%2C%20C.%20Wagner%2C%20M.%20Fullner%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20supply%20affects%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20of%20Artemisia%20vulgaris%20in%20a%20phosphate-polluted%20field%20site%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Blanke%2C%20V.%20Renker%2C%20C.%20Wagner%2C%20M.%20Fullner%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20supply%20affects%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20of%20Artemisia%20vulgaris%20in%20a%20phosphate-polluted%20field%20site%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Blanke%2C%20V.%20Renker%2C%20C.%20Wagner%2C%20M.%20Fullner%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20supply%20affects%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20of%20Artemisia%20vulgaris%20in%20a%20phosphate-polluted%20field%20site%202005)

[^Boldt_et+al_2011_a]: Boldt, K., Pors, Y., Haupt, B., Bitterlich, M., Kuhn, C., Grimm, B., and Franken, P. (2011). Photochemical processes, carbon assimilation and RNA accumulation of sucrose transporter genes in tomato arbuscular mycorrhiza. J. Plant Physiol. 168:1256–1263. [[Boldt_et+al_PhotochemicalProcessesCarbonAssimilationRna_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Boldt%2C%20K.%20Pors%2C%20Y.%20Haupt%2C%20B.%20Bitterlich%2C%20M.%20Photochemical%20processes%2C%20carbon%20assimilation%20and%20RNA%20accumulation%20of%20sucrose%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boldt%2C%20K.%20Pors%2C%20Y.%20Haupt%2C%20B.%20Bitterlich%2C%20M.%20Photochemical%20processes%2C%20carbon%20assimilation%20and%20RNA%20accumulation%20of%20sucrose%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Boldt%2C%20K.%20Pors%2C%20Y.%20Haupt%2C%20B.%20Bitterlich%2C%20M.%20Photochemical%20processes%2C%20carbon%20assimilation%20and%20RNA%20accumulation%20of%20sucrose%20transporter%20genes%20in%20tomato%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011)

[^Bonfante_2010_a]: Bonfante, P., and Genre, A. (2010). Mechanisms underlying beneficial plant-fungus interactions in mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nat. Commun. 1:48. [[Bonfante_MechanismsUnderlyingBeneficialPlantfungusInteractions_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Genre%2C%20A.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20beneficial%20plant-fungus%20interactions%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Genre%2C%20A.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20beneficial%20plant-fungus%20interactions%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Genre%2C%20A.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20beneficial%20plant-fungus%20interactions%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010)

[^Bravo_et+al_2017_a]: Bravo, A., Brands, M., Wewer, V., Dormann, P., and Harrison, M.J. (2017). Arbuscular mycorrhiza-specific enzymes FatM and RAM2 fine-tune lipid biosynthesis to promote development of arbuscular mycorrhiza. New Phytol. 214:1631–1645. [[Bravo_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaspecificEnzymesFatmRam2_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bravo%2C%20A.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Wewer%2C%20V.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-specific%20enzymes%20FatM%20and%20RAM2%20fine-tune%20lipid%20biosynthesis%20to%20promote%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202017)

[^Breuillin-Sessoms_et+al_2015_a]: Breuillin-Sessoms, F., Floss, D.S., Gomez, S.K., Pumplin, N., Ding, Y., Levesque-Tremblay, V., Noar, R.D., Daniels, D.A., Bravo, A., Eaglesham, J.B., et al. (2015). Suppression of arbuscule degeneration in Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter4 mutants is dependent on the ammonium transporter 2 family protein AMT2;3. Plant Cell 27:1352–1366. [[Breuillin-Sessoms_et+al_SuppressionArbusculeDegenerationMedicagoTruncatula_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203.%20Plant%20Cell%2027%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203.%20Plant%20Cell%2027%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Breuillin-Sessoms%2C%20F.%20Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Gomez%2C%20S.K.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20Suppression%20of%20arbuscule%20degeneration%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter4%20mutants%20is%20dependent%20on%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%202%20family%20protein%20AMT2%3B%203.%20Plant%20Cell%2027%202015)

[^Breuillin_et+al_2010_a]: Breuillin, F., Schramm, J., Hajirezaei, M., Ahkami, A., Favre, P., Druege, U., Hause, B., Bucher, M., Kretzschmar, T., Bossolini, E., et al. (2010). Phosphate systemically inhibits development of arbuscular mycorrhiza in Petunia hybrida and represses genes involved in mycorrhizal functioning. Plant J. 64:1002–1017. [[Breuillin_et+al_PhosphateSystemicallyInhibitsDevelopmentArbuscular_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Breuillin%2C%20F.%20Schramm%2C%20J.%20Hajirezaei%2C%20M.%20Ahkami%2C%20A.%20Phosphate%20systemically%20inhibits%20development%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20Petunia%20hybrida%20and%20represses%20genes%20involved%20in%20mycorrhizal%20functioning%202010)

[^Calabrese_et+al_2016_a]: Calabrese, S., Perez-Tienda, J., Ellerbeck, M., Arnould, C., Chatagnier, O., Boller, T., Schussler, A., Brachmann, A., Wipf, D., Ferrol, N., et al. (2016). GintAMT3-a low-affinity ammonium transporter of the arbuscular mycorrhizal Rhizophagus irregularis. Front. Plant Sci. 7:679. [[Calabrese_et+al_Gintamt3affinityAmmoniumTransporterArbuscular_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Calabrese%2C%20S.%20Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Ellerbeck%2C%20M.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20GintAMT3-a%20low-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Calabrese%2C%20S.%20Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Ellerbeck%2C%20M.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20GintAMT3-a%20low-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Calabrese%2C%20S.%20Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Ellerbeck%2C%20M.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20GintAMT3-a%20low-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%202016)

[^Casieri_et+al_2012_a]: Casieri, L., Gallardo, K., and Wipf, D. (2012). Transcriptional response of Medicago truncatula sulphate transporters to arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis with and without sulphur stress. Planta 235:1431–1447. [[Casieri_et+al_TranscriptionalResponseMedicagoTruncatulaSulphate_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Casieri%2C%20L.%20Gallardo%2C%20K.%20Wipf%2C%20D.%20Transcriptional%20response%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sulphate%20transporters%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20with%20and%20without%20sulphur%20stress%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Casieri%2C%20L.%20Gallardo%2C%20K.%20Wipf%2C%20D.%20Transcriptional%20response%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sulphate%20transporters%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20with%20and%20without%20sulphur%20stress%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Casieri%2C%20L.%20Gallardo%2C%20K.%20Wipf%2C%20D.%20Transcriptional%20response%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sulphate%20transporters%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20with%20and%20without%20sulphur%20stress%202012)

[^Chalot_et+al_1994_a]: Chalot, M., Brun, A., Finlay, R.D., and Soderstrom, B. (1994). Metabolism of [C-14] glutamate and [C-14] glutamine by the ectomycorrhizal fungus Paxillus involutus. Microbiology 140:1641– 1649. [[Chalot_et+al_Metabolismc14Glutamatec14Glutamine_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chalot%2C%20M.%20Brun%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Soderstrom%2C%20B.%20Metabolism%20of%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamate%20and%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamine%20by%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Paxillus%20involutus%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chalot%2C%20M.%20Brun%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Soderstrom%2C%20B.%20Metabolism%20of%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamate%20and%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamine%20by%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Paxillus%20involutus%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chalot%2C%20M.%20Brun%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Soderstrom%2C%20B.%20Metabolism%20of%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamate%20and%20%5BC-14%5D%20glutamine%20by%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Paxillus%20involutus%201994)

[^Chen_et+al_2005_a]: Chen, X., Wu, C.H., Tang, J.J., and Hu, S.J. (2005). Arbuscular mycorrhizae enhance metal lead uptake and growth of host plants under a sand culture experiment. Chemosphere 60:665–671. [[Chen_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaeEnhanceMetalLead_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20X.%20Wu%2C%20C.H.%20Tang%2C%20J.J.%20Hu%2C%20S.J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20enhance%20metal%20lead%20uptake%20and%20growth%20of%20host%20plants%20under%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20X.%20Wu%2C%20C.H.%20Tang%2C%20J.J.%20Hu%2C%20S.J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20enhance%20metal%20lead%20uptake%20and%20growth%20of%20host%20plants%20under%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20X.%20Wu%2C%20C.H.%20Tang%2C%20J.J.%20Hu%2C%20S.J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20enhance%20metal%20lead%20uptake%20and%20growth%20of%20host%20plants%20under%202005)

[^Chen_et+al_2011_a]: Chen, A.Q., Gu, M.A., Sun, S.B., Zhu, L.L., Hong, S.A., and Xu, G.H. (2011). Identification of two conserved cis-acting elements, MYCS and P1BS, involved in the regulation of mycorrhiza-activated phosphate transporters in eudicot species. New Phytol. 189:1157– 1169. [[Chen_et+al_IdentificationConservedactingElementsMycs_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20A.Q.%20Gu%2C%20M.A.%20Sun%2C%20S.B.%20Zhu%2C%20L.L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhiza-activated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20A.Q.%20Gu%2C%20M.A.%20Sun%2C%20S.B.%20Zhu%2C%20L.L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhiza-activated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20A.Q.%20Gu%2C%20M.A.%20Sun%2C%20S.B.%20Zhu%2C%20L.L.%20Identification%20of%20two%20conserved%20cis-acting%20elements%2C%20MYCS%20and%20P1BS%2C%20involved%20in%20the%20regulation%20of%20mycorrhiza-activated%20phosphate%20transporters%20in%20eudicot%20species%202011)

[^Crawford_1998_a]: Crawford, N.M., and Glass, A.D.M. (1998). Molecular and physiological aspects of nitrate uptake in plants. Trends Plant Sci. 3:389–395. [[Crawford_MolecularPhysiologicalAspectsNitrateUptake_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Crawford%2C%20N.M.%20Glass%2C%20A.D.M.%20Molecular%20and%20physiological%20aspects%20of%20nitrate%20uptake%20in%20plants%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crawford%2C%20N.M.%20Glass%2C%20A.D.M.%20Molecular%20and%20physiological%20aspects%20of%20nitrate%20uptake%20in%20plants%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Crawford%2C%20N.M.%20Glass%2C%20A.D.M.%20Molecular%20and%20physiological%20aspects%20of%20nitrate%20uptake%20in%20plants%201998)

[^de_Mita_et+al_2014_a]: De Mita, S., Streng, A., Bisseling, T., and Geurts, R. (2014). Evolution of a symbiotic receptor through gene duplications in the legumerhizobium mutualism. New Phytol. 201:961–972. [[de_Mita_et+al_EvolutionSymbioticReceptorThroughGene_2014]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Mita%2C%20S.%20Streng%2C%20A.%20Bisseling%2C%20T.%20Geurts%2C%20R.%20Evolution%20of%20a%20symbiotic%20receptor%20through%20gene%20duplications%20in%20the%20legumerhizobium%20mutualism%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Mita%2C%20S.%20Streng%2C%20A.%20Bisseling%2C%20T.%20Geurts%2C%20R.%20Evolution%20of%20a%20symbiotic%20receptor%20through%20gene%20duplications%20in%20the%20legumerhizobium%20mutualism%202014) 

[^den_Camp_et+al_2011_a]: den Camp, R.O., Streng, A., De Mita, S., Cao, Q.Q., Polone, E., Liu, W., Ammiraju, J.S.S., Kudrna, D., Wing, R., Untergasser, A., et al. (2011). LysM-type mycorrhizal receptor recruited for rhizobium symbiosis in nonlegume parasponia. Science 331:909–912. [[den_Camp_et+al_LysmtypeMycorrhizalReceptorRecruitedRhizobium_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=den%20Camp%2C%20R.O.%20Streng%2C%20A.%20De%20Mita%2C%20S.%20Cao%2C%20Q.Q.%20LysM-type%20mycorrhizal%20receptor%20recruited%20for%20rhizobium%20symbiosis%20in%20nonlegume%20parasponia%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=den%20Camp%2C%20R.O.%20Streng%2C%20A.%20De%20Mita%2C%20S.%20Cao%2C%20Q.Q.%20LysM-type%20mycorrhizal%20receptor%20recruited%20for%20rhizobium%20symbiosis%20in%20nonlegume%20parasponia%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=den%20Camp%2C%20R.O.%20Streng%2C%20A.%20De%20Mita%2C%20S.%20Cao%2C%20Q.Q.%20LysM-type%20mycorrhizal%20receptor%20recruited%20for%20rhizobium%20symbiosis%20in%20nonlegume%20parasponia%202011)

[^Doidy_et+al_2012_b]: Doidy, J., van Tuinen, D., Lamotte, O., Corneillat, M., Alcaraz, G., and Wipf, D. (2012). The Medicago truncatula sucrose transporter family: characterization and implication of key members in carbon partitioning towards arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Mol. Plant 5:1346– 1358. [[Doidy_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaSucroseTransporterFamily_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Doidy%2C%20J.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Lamotte%2C%20O.%20Corneillat%2C%20M.%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sucrose%20transporter%20family%3A%20characterization%20and%20implication%20of%20key%20members%20in%20carbon%20partitioning%20towards%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Doidy%2C%20J.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Lamotte%2C%20O.%20Corneillat%2C%20M.%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sucrose%20transporter%20family%3A%20characterization%20and%20implication%20of%20key%20members%20in%20carbon%20partitioning%20towards%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Doidy%2C%20J.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Lamotte%2C%20O.%20Corneillat%2C%20M.%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20sucrose%20transporter%20family%3A%20characterization%20and%20implication%20of%20key%20members%20in%20carbon%20partitioning%20towards%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012)

[^Faber_et+al_1990_a]: Faber, B.A., Zasoski, R.J., Burau, R.G., and Uriu, K. (1990). Zinc uptake by corn as affected by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae. Plant Soil 129:121–130. [[Faber_et+al_ZincUptakeCornAffectedVesiculararbuscular_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Faber%2C%20B.A.%20Zasoski%2C%20R.J.%20Burau%2C%20R.G.%20Uriu%2C%20K.%20Zinc%20uptake%20by%20corn%20as%20affected%20by%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizae.%20Plant%20Soil%20129%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Faber%2C%20B.A.%20Zasoski%2C%20R.J.%20Burau%2C%20R.G.%20Uriu%2C%20K.%20Zinc%20uptake%20by%20corn%20as%20affected%20by%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizae.%20Plant%20Soil%20129%201990) 

[^Fellbaum_et+al_2012_a]: Fellbaum, C.R., Gachomo, E.W., Beesetty, Y., Choudhari, S., Strahan, G.D., Pfeffer, P.E., Kiers, E.T., and Bucking, H. (2012). Carbon availability triggers fungal nitrogen uptake and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109:2666–2671. [[Fellbaum_et+al_CarbonAvailabilityTriggersFungalNitrogen_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Gachomo%2C%20E.W.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Choudhari%2C%20S.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Gachomo%2C%20E.W.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Choudhari%2C%20S.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Gachomo%2C%20E.W.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Choudhari%2C%20S.%20Carbon%20availability%20triggers%20fungal%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202012)

[^Ferrol_et+al_2002_a]: Ferrol, N., Pozo, M.J., Antelo, M., and Azcon-Aguilar, C. (2002). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis regulates plasma membrane H+ATPase gene expression in tomato plants. J. Exp. Bot. 53:1683–1687. [[Ferrol_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisRegulatesPlasma_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2BATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2BATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ferrol%2C%20N.%20Pozo%2C%20M.J.%20Antelo%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20regulates%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2BATPase%20gene%20expression%20in%20tomato%20plants%202002)

[^Fitter_2006_a]: Fitter, A.H. (2006). What is the link between carbon and phosphorus fluxes in arbuscular mycorrhizas? A null hypothesis for symbiotic function. New Phytol. 172:3–6. [[Fitter_WhatLinkBetweenCarbonPhosphorus_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20What%20is%20the%20link%20between%20carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20fluxes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3F%20A%20null%20hypothesis%20for%20symbiotic%20function%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20What%20is%20the%20link%20between%20carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20fluxes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3F%20A%20null%20hypothesis%20for%20symbiotic%20function%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20What%20is%20the%20link%20between%20carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20fluxes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3F%20A%20null%20hypothesis%20for%20symbiotic%20function%202006)

[^Floss_et+al_2013_a]: Floss, D.S., Levy, J.G., Levesque-Tremblay, V., Pumplin, N., and Harrison, M.J. (2013). DELLA proteins regulate arbuscule formation in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110:E5025–E5034. [[Floss_et+al_DellaProteinsRegulateArbusculeFormation_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Floss%2C%20D.S.%20Levy%2C%20J.G.%20Levesque-Tremblay%2C%20V.%20Pumplin%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20regulate%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202013)

[^Foo_et+al_2013_a]: Foo, E., Ross, J.J., Jones, W.T., and Reid, J.B. (2013). Plant hormones in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbioses: an emerging role for gibberellins. Ann. Bot. 111:769–779. [[Foo_et+al_PlantHormonesArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbioses_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Foo%2C%20E.%20Ross%2C%20J.J.%20Jones%2C%20W.T.%20Reid%2C%20J.B.%20Plant%20hormones%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%3A%20an%20emerging%20role%20for%20gibberellins%202013)

[^Gabriel-Neumann_et+al_2011_a]: Gabriel-Neumann, E., Neumann, G., Leggewie, G., and George, E. (2011). Constitutive overexpression of the sucrose transporter SoSUT1 in potato plants increases arbuscular mycorrhiza fungal root colonization under high, but not under low, soil phosphorus availability. J. Plant Physiol. 168:911–919. [[Gabriel-Neumann_et+al_ConstitutiveOverexpressionSucroseTransporterSosut1_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gabriel-Neumann%2C%20E.%20Neumann%2C%20G.%20Leggewie%2C%20G.%20George%2C%20E.%20Constitutive%20overexpression%20of%20the%20sucrose%20transporter%20SoSUT1%20in%20potato%20plants%20increases%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungal%20root%20colonization%20under%20high%2C%20but%20not%20under%20low%2C%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gabriel-Neumann%2C%20E.%20Neumann%2C%20G.%20Leggewie%2C%20G.%20George%2C%20E.%20Constitutive%20overexpression%20of%20the%20sucrose%20transporter%20SoSUT1%20in%20potato%20plants%20increases%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungal%20root%20colonization%20under%20high%2C%20but%20not%20under%20low%2C%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gabriel-Neumann%2C%20E.%20Neumann%2C%20G.%20Leggewie%2C%20G.%20George%2C%20E.%20Constitutive%20overexpression%20of%20the%20sucrose%20transporter%20SoSUT1%20in%20potato%20plants%20increases%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20fungal%20root%20colonization%20under%20high%2C%20but%20not%20under%20low%2C%20soil%20phosphorus%20availability%202011)

[^Garcia_et+al_2017_a]: Garcia, K., Chasman, D., Roy, S., and Ane, J.M. (2017). Physiological responses and gene co-expression network of mycorrhizal roots under K+ deprivation. Plant Physiol. 173:1811–1823. [[Garcia_et+al_PhysiologicalResponsesGeneexpressionNetwork_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Garcia%2C%20K.%20Chasman%2C%20D.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Physiological%20responses%20and%20gene%20co-expression%20network%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20under%20K%2B%20deprivation%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Garcia%2C%20K.%20Chasman%2C%20D.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Physiological%20responses%20and%20gene%20co-expression%20network%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20under%20K%2B%20deprivation%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Garcia%2C%20K.%20Chasman%2C%20D.%20Roy%2C%20S.%20Ane%2C%20J.M.%20Physiological%20responses%20and%20gene%20co-expression%20network%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20under%20K%2B%20deprivation%202017)

[^Gaude_et+al_2012_a]: Gaude, N., Bortfeld, S., Duensing, N., Lohse, M., and Krajinski, F. (2012). Arbuscule-containing and non-colonized cortical cells of mycorrhizal roots undergo extensive and specific reprogramming during arbuscular mycorrhizal development. Plant J. 69:510–528. [[Gaude_et+al_ArbusculecontainingcolonizedCorticalCellsMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gaude%2C%20N.%20Bortfeld%2C%20S.%20Duensing%2C%20N.%20Lohse%2C%20M.%20Arbuscule-containing%20and%20non-colonized%20cortical%20cells%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20undergo%20extensive%20and%20specific%20reprogramming%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gaude%2C%20N.%20Bortfeld%2C%20S.%20Duensing%2C%20N.%20Lohse%2C%20M.%20Arbuscule-containing%20and%20non-colonized%20cortical%20cells%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20undergo%20extensive%20and%20specific%20reprogramming%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gaude%2C%20N.%20Bortfeld%2C%20S.%20Duensing%2C%20N.%20Lohse%2C%20M.%20Arbuscule-containing%20and%20non-colonized%20cortical%20cells%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20undergo%20extensive%20and%20specific%20reprogramming%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%202012)

[^Genre_et+al_2005_a]: Genre, A., Chabaud, M., Timmers, T., Bonfante, P., and Barker, D.G. (2005). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi elicit a novel intracellular apparatus in Medicago truncatula root epidermal cells before infection. Plant Cell 17:3489–3499. [[Genre_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiElicitNovel_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Timmers%2C%20T.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20elicit%20a%20novel%20intracellular%20apparatus%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20root%20epidermal%20cells%20before%20infection%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Timmers%2C%20T.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20elicit%20a%20novel%20intracellular%20apparatus%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20root%20epidermal%20cells%20before%20infection%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Timmers%2C%20T.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20elicit%20a%20novel%20intracellular%20apparatus%20in%20Medicago%20truncatula%20root%20epidermal%20cells%20before%20infection%202005)

[^Genre_et+al_2008_a]: Genre, A., Chabaud, M., Faccio, A., Barker, D.G., and Bonfante, P. (2008). Prepenetration apparatus assembly precedes and predicts the colonization patterns of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi within the root cortex of both Medicago truncatula and Daucus carota. Plant Cell 20:1407–1420. [[Genre_et+al_PrepenetrationApparatusAssemblyPrecedesPredicts_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Faccio%2C%20A.%20Barker%2C%20D.G.%20Prepenetration%20apparatus%20assembly%20precedes%20and%20predicts%20the%20colonization%20patterns%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20within%20the%20root%20cortex%20of%20both%20Medicago%20truncatula%20and%20Daucus%20carota.%20Plant%20Cell%2020%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Genre%2C%20A.%20Chabaud%2C%20M.%20Faccio%2C%20A.%20Barker%2C%20D.G.%20Prepenetration%20apparatus%20assembly%20precedes%20and%20predicts%20the%20colonization%20patterns%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20within%20the%20root%20cortex%20of%20both%20Medicago%20truncatula%20and%20Daucus%20carota.%20Plant%20Cell%2020%202008) 

[^Gianinazzi-Pearson_et+al_2000_a]: Gianinazzi-Pearson, V., Arnould, C., Oufattole, M., Arango, M., and Gianinazzi, S. (2000). Differential activation of H+-ATPase genes by an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus in root cells of transgenic tobacco. Planta 211:609–613. [[Gianinazzi-Pearson_et+al_DifferentialActivationHatpaseGenesArbuscular_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20Oufattole%2C%20M.%20Arango%2C%20M.%20Differential%20activation%20of%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20root%20cells%20of%20transgenic%20tobacco%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20Oufattole%2C%20M.%20Arango%2C%20M.%20Differential%20activation%20of%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20root%20cells%20of%20transgenic%20tobacco%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Arnould%2C%20C.%20Oufattole%2C%20M.%20Arango%2C%20M.%20Differential%20activation%20of%20H%2B-ATPase%20genes%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20root%20cells%20of%20transgenic%20tobacco%202000)

[^Giaquinta_1983_a]: Giaquinta, R.T. (1983). Phloem loading of sucrose. Annu. Rev. Plant Phys. 34:347–387. [[Giaquinta_PhloemLoadingSucrose_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Giaquinta%2C%20R.T.%20Phloem%20loading%20of%20sucrose%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Giaquinta%2C%20R.T.%20Phloem%20loading%20of%20sucrose%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Giaquinta%2C%20R.T.%20Phloem%20loading%20of%20sucrose%201983)

[^Giovannetti_et+al_2014_a]: Giovannetti, M., Tolosano, M., Volpe, V., Kopriva, S., and Bonfante, P. (2014). Identification and functional characterization of a sulfate transporter induced by both sulfur starvation and mycorrhiza formation in Lotus japonicus. New Phytol. 204:609–619. [[Giovannetti_et+al_IdentificationFunctionalCharacterizationSulfateTransporter_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Tolosano%2C%20M.%20Volpe%2C%20V.%20Kopriva%2C%20S.%20Identification%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20a%20sulfate%20transporter%20induced%20by%20both%20sulfur%20starvation%20and%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Tolosano%2C%20M.%20Volpe%2C%20V.%20Kopriva%2C%20S.%20Identification%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20a%20sulfate%20transporter%20induced%20by%20both%20sulfur%20starvation%20and%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Tolosano%2C%20M.%20Volpe%2C%20V.%20Kopriva%2C%20S.%20Identification%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20a%20sulfate%20transporter%20induced%20by%20both%20sulfur%20starvation%20and%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014)

[^Gohre_2006_a]: Gohre, V., and Paszkowski, U. (2006). Contribution of the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis to heavy metal phytoremediation. Planta 223:1115–1122. [[Gohre_ContributionArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisHeavy_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gohre%2C%20V.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Contribution%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20to%20heavy%20metal%20phytoremediation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gohre%2C%20V.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Contribution%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20to%20heavy%20metal%20phytoremediation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gohre%2C%20V.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Contribution%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20to%20heavy%20metal%20phytoremediation%202006)

[^Gonzalez-Guerrero_et+al_2005_a]: Gonzalez-Guerrero, M., Azcon-Aguilar, C., Mooney, M., Valderas, A., MacDiarmid, C.W., Eide, D.J., and Ferrol, N. (2005). Characterization of a Glomus intraradices gene encoding a putative Zn transporter of the cation diffusion facilitator family. Fungal Genet. Biol. 42:130–140. [[Gonzalez-Guerrero_et+al_CharacterizationGlomusIntraradicesGeneEncoding_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mooney%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20Glomus%20intraradices%20gene%20encoding%20a%20putative%20Zn%20transporter%20of%20the%20cation%20diffusion%20facilitator%20family%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mooney%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20Glomus%20intraradices%20gene%20encoding%20a%20putative%20Zn%20transporter%20of%20the%20cation%20diffusion%20facilitator%20family%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mooney%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20Glomus%20intraradices%20gene%20encoding%20a%20putative%20Zn%20transporter%20of%20the%20cation%20diffusion%20facilitator%20family%202005)

[^Govindarajulu_et+al_2005_a]: Govindarajulu, M., Pfeffer, P.E., Jin, H.R., Abubaker, J., Douds, D.D., Allen, J.W., Bucking, H., Lammers, P.J., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2005). Nitrogen transfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 435:819–823. [[Govindarajulu_et+al_NitrogenTransferArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005)

[^Guether_et+al_2009_a]: Guether, M., Neuhauser, B., Balestrini, R., Dynowski, M., Ludewig, U., and Bonfante, P. (2009). A mycorrhizal-specific ammonium transporter from Lotus japonicus acquires nitrogen released by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Physiol. 150:73–83. [[Guether_et+al_MycorrhizalspecificAmmoniumTransporterFromLotus_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guether%2C%20M.%20Neuhauser%2C%20B.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Dynowski%2C%20M.%20A%20mycorrhizal-specific%20ammonium%20transporter%20from%20Lotus%20japonicus%20acquires%20nitrogen%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guether%2C%20M.%20Neuhauser%2C%20B.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Dynowski%2C%20M.%20A%20mycorrhizal-specific%20ammonium%20transporter%20from%20Lotus%20japonicus%20acquires%20nitrogen%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guether%2C%20M.%20Neuhauser%2C%20B.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Dynowski%2C%20M.%20A%20mycorrhizal-specific%20ammonium%20transporter%20from%20Lotus%20japonicus%20acquires%20nitrogen%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009)

[^Guo_et+al_1996_a]: Guo, Y., George, E., and Marschner, H. (1996). Contribution of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus to the uptake of cadmium and nickel in bean and maize plants. Plant Soil 184:195–205. [[Guo_et+al_ContributionArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusUptake_1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guo%2C%20Y.%20George%2C%20E.%20Marschner%2C%20H.%20Contribution%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20to%20the%20uptake%20of%20cadmium%20and%20nickel%20in%20bean%20and%20maize%20plants.%20Plant%20Soil%20184%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guo%2C%20Y.%20George%2C%20E.%20Marschner%2C%20H.%20Contribution%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20to%20the%20uptake%20of%20cadmium%20and%20nickel%20in%20bean%20and%20maize%20plants.%20Plant%20Soil%20184%201996) 

[^Gutjahr_2014_a]: Gutjahr, C. (2014). Phytohormone signaling in arbuscular mycorhiza development. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 20:26–34. [[Gutjahr_PhytohormoneSignalingArbuscularMycorhizaDevelopment_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Phytohormone%20signaling%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorhiza%20development%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Phytohormone%20signaling%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorhiza%20development%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Phytohormone%20signaling%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorhiza%20development%202014)

[^Gutjahr_et+al_2009_a]: Gutjahr, C., Novero, M., Guether, M., Montanari, O., Udvardi, M., and Bonfante, P. (2009). Presymbiotic factors released by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Gigaspora margarita induce starch accumulation in Lotus japonicus roots. New Phytol. 183:53–61. [[Gutjahr_et+al_PresymbioticFactorsReleasedArbuscularMycorrhizal_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Guether%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20O.%20Presymbiotic%20factors%20released%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20induce%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20roots%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Guether%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20O.%20Presymbiotic%20factors%20released%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20induce%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20roots%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Guether%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20O.%20Presymbiotic%20factors%20released%20by%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20induce%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20roots%202009)

[^Gutjahr_et+al_2011_a]: Gutjahr, C., Novero, M., Welham, T., Wang, T., and Bonfante, P. (2011). Root starch accumulation in response to arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization differs among Lotus japonicus starch mutants. Planta 234:639–646. [[Gutjahr_et+al_RootStarchAccumulationResponseArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Welham%2C%20T.%20Wang%2C%20T.%20Root%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20response%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20differs%20among%20Lotus%20japonicus%20starch%20mutants%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Welham%2C%20T.%20Wang%2C%20T.%20Root%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20response%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20differs%20among%20Lotus%20japonicus%20starch%20mutants%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Novero%2C%20M.%20Welham%2C%20T.%20Wang%2C%20T.%20Root%20starch%20accumulation%20in%20response%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20differs%20among%20Lotus%20japonicus%20starch%20mutants%202011)

[^Gutjahr_et+al_2012_a]: Gutjahr, C., Radovanovic, D., Geoffroy, J., Zhang, Q., Siegler, H., Chiapello, M., Casieri, L., An, K., An, G., Guiderdoni, E., et al. (2012). The half-size ABC transporters STR1 and STR2 are indispensable for mycorrhizal arbuscule formation in rice. Plant J. 69:906–920. [[Gutjahr_et+al_HalfsizeAbcTransportersStr1Str2_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Radovanovic%2C%20D.%20Geoffroy%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20The%20half-size%20ABC%20transporters%20STR1%20and%20STR2%20are%20indispensable%20for%20mycorrhizal%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20rice%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Radovanovic%2C%20D.%20Geoffroy%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20The%20half-size%20ABC%20transporters%20STR1%20and%20STR2%20are%20indispensable%20for%20mycorrhizal%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20rice%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Radovanovic%2C%20D.%20Geoffroy%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20The%20half-size%20ABC%20transporters%20STR1%20and%20STR2%20are%20indispensable%20for%20mycorrhizal%20arbuscule%20formation%20in%20rice%202012)

[^Harrison_et+al_2002_a]: Harrison, M.J., Dewbre, G.R., and Liu, J.Y. (2002). A phosphate transporter from Medicago truncatula involved in the acquisition of phosphate released by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Cell 14:2413–2429. [[Harrison_et+al_PhosphateTransporterFromMedicagoTruncatula_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Liu%2C%20J.Y.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%20involved%20in%20the%20acquisition%20of%20phosphate%20released%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202002)

[^Harrison_1995_a]: Harrison, M.J., and Vanbuuren, M.L. (1995). A phosphate transporter from the mycorrhizal fungus Glomus versiforme. Nature 378:626–629. [[Harrison_PhosphateTransporterFromMycorrhizalFungus_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Vanbuuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Vanbuuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Vanbuuren%2C%20M.L.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20from%20the%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20versiforme%201995)

[^Hawkins_et+al_2000_a]: Hawkins, H.J., Johansen, A., and George, E. (2000). Uptake and transport of organic and inorganic nitrogen by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Soil 226:275–285. [[Hawkins_et+al_UptakeTransportOrganicInorganicNitrogen_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hawkins%2C%20H.J.%20Johansen%2C%20A.%20George%2C%20E.%20Uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20organic%20and%20inorganic%20nitrogen%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi.%20Plant%20Soil%20226%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hawkins%2C%20H.J.%20Johansen%2C%20A.%20George%2C%20E.%20Uptake%20and%20transport%20of%20organic%20and%20inorganic%20nitrogen%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi.%20Plant%20Soil%20226%202000) 

[^Helber_et+al_2011_a]: Helber, N., Wippel, K., Sauer, N., Schaarschmidt, S., Hause, B., and Requena, N. (2011). A versatile monosaccharide transporter that operates in the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus sp is crucial for the symbiotic relationship with plants. Plant Cell 23:3812–3823. [[Helber_et+al_VersatileMonosaccharideTransporterThatOperates_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Helber%2C%20N.%20Wippel%2C%20K.%20Sauer%2C%20N.%20Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Helber%2C%20N.%20Wippel%2C%20K.%20Sauer%2C%20N.%20Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Helber%2C%20N.%20Wippel%2C%20K.%20Sauer%2C%20N.%20Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011)

[^Hildebrandt_et+al_2007_a]: Hildebrandt, U., Regvar, M., and Bothe, H. (2007). Arbuscular mycorrhiza and heavy metal tolerance. Phytochemistry 68:139–146. [[Hildebrandt_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaHeavyMetalTolerance_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Regvar%2C%20M.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20heavy%20metal%20tolerance%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Regvar%2C%20M.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20heavy%20metal%20tolerance%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Regvar%2C%20M.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20and%20heavy%20metal%20tolerance%202007)

[^Ho_1973_a]: Ho, I., and Trappe, J.M. (1973). Translocation of C-14 from festuca plants to their endomycorrhizal fungi. Nat. New Biol. 244:30–31. [[Ho_TranslocationC14FromFestucaPlants_1973]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ho%2C%20I.%20Trappe%2C%20J.M.%20Translocation%20of%20C-14%20from%20festuca%20plants%20to%20their%20endomycorrhizal%20fungi%201973) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ho%2C%20I.%20Trappe%2C%20J.M.%20Translocation%20of%20C-14%20from%20festuca%20plants%20to%20their%20endomycorrhizal%20fungi%201973) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ho%2C%20I.%20Trappe%2C%20J.M.%20Translocation%20of%20C-14%20from%20festuca%20plants%20to%20their%20endomycorrhizal%20fungi%201973)

[^Hodge_et+al_2001_a]: Hodge, A., Campbell, C.D., and Fitter, A.H. (2001). An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature 413:297–299. [[Hodge_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^Jabajihare_1988_a]: Jabajihare, S. (1988). Lipid and fatty-acid profiles of some vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal fungi - contribution to taxonomy. Mycologia 80:622–629. [[Jabajihare_LipidFattyacidProfilesSomeVesiculararbuscular_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Lipid%20and%20fatty-acid%20profiles%20of%20some%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20-%20contribution%20to%20taxonomy%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Lipid%20and%20fatty-acid%20profiles%20of%20some%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20-%20contribution%20to%20taxonomy%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Lipid%20and%20fatty-acid%20profiles%20of%20some%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20-%20contribution%20to%20taxonomy%201988)

[^Jabajihare_et+al_1984_a]: Jabajihare, S., Deschene, A., and Kendrick, B. (1984). Lipid-content and composition of vesicles of a vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. Mycologia 76:1024–1030. [[Jabajihare_et+al_LipidcontentCompositionVesiclesVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Deschene%2C%20A.%20Kendrick%2C%20B.%20Lipid-content%20and%20composition%20of%20vesicles%20of%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Deschene%2C%20A.%20Kendrick%2C%20B.%20Lipid-content%20and%20composition%20of%20vesicles%20of%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jabajihare%2C%20S.%20Deschene%2C%20A.%20Kendrick%2C%20B.%20Lipid-content%20and%20composition%20of%20vesicles%20of%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%201984)

[^Jakobsen_et+al_1992_a]: Jakobsen, I., Abbott, L.K., and Robson, A.D. (1992a). External hyphae of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with Trifolium subterraneum L. 1. Spread of hyphae and phosphorus inflow into roots. New Phytol. 120:371–380. [[Jakobsen_et+al_ExternalHyphaeVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%201.%20Spread%20of%20hyphae%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20into%20roots%201992)

[^Jakobsen_et+al_1992_b]: Jakobsen, I., Abbott, L.K., and Robson, A.D. (1992b). External hyphae of vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with Trifolium subterraneum L. 2. Hyphal transport of P-32 over defined distances. New Phytol. 120:509–516. [[Jakobsen_et+al_ExternalHyphaeVesicularArbuscularMycorrhizal_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%202.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20over%20defined%20distances%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%202.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20over%20defined%20distances%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Abbott%2C%20L.K.%20Robson%2C%20A.D.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%202.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20over%20defined%20distances%201992)

[^Javot_et+al_2007_a]: Javot, H., Penmetsa, R.V., Terzaghi, N., Cook, D.R., and Harrison, M.J. (2007). A Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter indispensable for the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104:1720–1725. [[Javot_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaPhosphateTransporterIndispensable_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Javot%2C%20H.%20Penmetsa%2C%20R.V.%20Terzaghi%2C%20N.%20Cook%2C%20D.R.%20A%20Medicago%20truncatula%20phosphate%20transporter%20indispensable%20for%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202007)

[^Jiang_et+al_2017_a]: Jiang, Y., Wang, W., Xie, Q., Liu, N., Liu, L., Wang, D., Zhang, X., Yang, C., Chen, X., Tang, D., et al. (2017). Plants transfer lipids to sustain colonization by mutualistic mycorrhizal and parasitic fungi. Science 356:1172–1175. [[Jiang_et+al_PlantsTransferLipidsSustainColonization_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017)

[^Jin_et+al_2005_a]: Jin, H., Pfeffer, P.E., Douds, D.D., Piotrowski, E., Lammers, P.J., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2005). The uptake, metabolism, transport and transfer of nitrogen in an arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. New Phytol. 168:687–696. [[Jin_et+al_UptakeMetabolismTransportTransferNitrogen_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jin%2C%20H.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Piotrowski%2C%20E.%20The%20uptake%2C%20metabolism%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jin%2C%20H.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Piotrowski%2C%20E.%20The%20uptake%2C%20metabolism%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jin%2C%20H.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Piotrowski%2C%20E.%20The%20uptake%2C%20metabolism%2C%20transport%20and%20transfer%20of%20nitrogen%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005)

[^Jin_et+al_2016_a]: Jin, Y., Liu, H., Luo, D., Yu, N., Dong, W., Wang, C., Zhang, X., Dai, H., Yang, J., and Wang, E. (2016). DELLA proteins are common components of symbiotic rhizobial and mycorrhizal signalling pathways. Nat. Commun. 7:12433. [[Jin_et+al_DellaProteinsCommonComponentsSymbiotic_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jin%2C%20Y.%20Liu%2C%20H.%20Luo%2C%20D.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20are%20common%20components%20of%20symbiotic%20rhizobial%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signalling%20pathways%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jin%2C%20Y.%20Liu%2C%20H.%20Luo%2C%20D.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20are%20common%20components%20of%20symbiotic%20rhizobial%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signalling%20pathways%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jin%2C%20Y.%20Liu%2C%20H.%20Luo%2C%20D.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20DELLA%20proteins%20are%20common%20components%20of%20symbiotic%20rhizobial%20and%20mycorrhizal%20signalling%20pathways%202016)

[^Johansen_et+al_1992_a]: Johansen, A., Jakobsen, I., and Jensen, E.S. (1992). Hyphal transport of N-15-labeled nitrogen by a vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and its effect on depletion of inorganic soil-N. New Phytol. 122:281–288. [[Johansen_et+al_HyphalTransportN15labeledNitrogenVesiculararbuscular_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20N-15-labeled%20nitrogen%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20depletion%20of%20inorganic%20soil-N%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20N-15-labeled%20nitrogen%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20depletion%20of%20inorganic%20soil-N%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20N-15-labeled%20nitrogen%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20depletion%20of%20inorganic%20soil-N%201992)

[^Johansen_et+al_1993_a]: Johansen, A., Jakobsen, I., and Jensen, E.S. (1993). External hyphae of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with Trifolium subterraneum L. 3. Hyphal transport of P-32 and N-15. New Phytol. 124:61–68. [[Johansen_et+al_ExternalHyphaeVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%203.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20and%20N-15%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%203.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20and%20N-15%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20External%20hyphae%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20associated%20with%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%203.%20Hyphal%20transport%20of%20P-32%20and%20N-15%201993)

[^Hammer_et+al_2011_a]: Hammer, E.C., Pallon, J., Wallander, H., and Olsson, P.A. (2011). Tit for tat? A mycorrhizal fungus accumulates phosphorus under low plant carbon availability. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 76:236–244. [[Hammer_et+al_AMycorrhizalFungusAccumulates_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011)

[^Johansen_et+al_1996_a]: Johansen, A., Finlay, R.D., and Olsson, P.A. (1996). Nitrogen metabolism of external hyphae of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices. New Phytol. 133:705–712. [[Johansen_et+al_NitrogenMetabolismExternalHyphaeArbuscular_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Nitrogen%20metabolism%20of%20external%20hyphae%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%201996)

[^Molecular_2017_a]: Molecular Plant 10, 1147–1158, September 2017 a The Author 2017. [[Molecular_MolecularPlant1011471158September_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Molecular%20Plant%2010%2011471158%20September%202017%20a%20The%20Author%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Molecular%20Plant%2010%2011471158%20September%202017%20a%20The%20Author%202017) 

[^Joner_et+al_2000_a]: Joner, E.J., Briones, R., and Leyval, C. (2000). Metal-binding capacity of arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelium. Plant Soil 226:227–234. [[Joner_et+al_MetalbindingCapacityArbuscularMycorrhizalMycelium_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Briones%2C%20R.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Metal-binding%20capacity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelium%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Briones%2C%20R.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Metal-binding%20capacity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelium%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Joner%2C%20E.J.%20Briones%2C%20R.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Metal-binding%20capacity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelium%202000)

[^Jones_et+al_1995_a]: Jones, A., Davies, H.M., and Voelker, T.A. (1995). Palmitoyl-acyl carrier protein (Acp) thioesterase and the evolutionary origin of plant acyl-Acp thioesterases. Plant Cell 7:359–371. [[Jones_et+al_PalmitoylacylCarrierProteinacpThioesterase_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jones%2C%20A.%20Davies%2C%20H.M.%20Voelker%2C%20T.A.%20Palmitoyl-acyl%20carrier%20protein%20%28Acp%29%20thioesterase%20and%20the%20evolutionary%20origin%20of%20plant%20acyl-Acp%20thioesterases%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jones%2C%20A.%20Davies%2C%20H.M.%20Voelker%2C%20T.A.%20Palmitoyl-acyl%20carrier%20protein%20%28Acp%29%20thioesterase%20and%20the%20evolutionary%20origin%20of%20plant%20acyl-Acp%20thioesterases%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jones%2C%20A.%20Davies%2C%20H.M.%20Voelker%2C%20T.A.%20Palmitoyl-acyl%20carrier%20protein%20%28Acp%29%20thioesterase%20and%20the%20evolutionary%20origin%20of%20plant%20acyl-Acp%20thioesterases%201995)

[^Karandashov_2005_a]: Karandashov, V., and Bucher, M. (2005). Symbiotic phosphate transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas. Trends Plant Sci. 10:22–29. [[Karandashov_SymbioticPhosphateTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005)

[^Kiers_et+al_2011_a]: Kiers, E.T., Duhamel, M., Beesetty, Y., Mensah, J.A., Franken, O., Verbruggen, E., Fellbaum, C.R., Kowalchuk, G.A., Hart, M.M., Bago, A., et al. (2011). Reciprocal rewards stabilize cooperation in the mycorrhizal symbiosis. Science 333:880–882. [[Kiers_et+al_ReciprocalRewardsStabilizeCooperationMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011)

[^Kinden_1975_a]: Kinden, D.A., and Brown, M.F. (1975). Electron-microscopy of vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizae of yellow poplar. [[Kinden_ElectronmicroscopyVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizaeYellowPoplar_1975]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kinden%2C%20D.A.%20Brown%2C%20M.F.%20Electron-microscopy%20of%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20of%20yellow%20poplar%201975) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kinden%2C%20D.A.%20Brown%2C%20M.F.%20Electron-microscopy%20of%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20of%20yellow%20poplar%201975) 

[^2]: Intracellular hyphae and vesicles. Can. J. Microbiol. 21:1768–1780. [[Hyphae__0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Intracellular%20hyphae%20and%20vesicles%20Can%20J%20Microbiol%202117681780) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Intracellular%20hyphae%20and%20vesicles%20Can%20J%20Microbiol%202117681780) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Intracellular%20hyphae%20and%20vesicles%20Can%20J%20Microbiol%202117681780)

[^Kobae_et+al_2010_a]: Kobae, Y., Tamura, Y., Takai, S., Banba, M., and Hata, S. (2010). Localized expression of arbuscular mycorrhiza-inducible ammonium transporters in soybean. Plant Cell Physiol. 51:1411–1415. [[Kobae_et+al_LocalizedExpressionArbuscularMycorrhizainducibleAmmonium_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Tamura%2C%20Y.%20Takai%2C%20S.%20Banba%2C%20M.%20Localized%20expression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-inducible%20ammonium%20transporters%20in%20soybean%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Tamura%2C%20Y.%20Takai%2C%20S.%20Banba%2C%20M.%20Localized%20expression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-inducible%20ammonium%20transporters%20in%20soybean%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Tamura%2C%20Y.%20Takai%2C%20S.%20Banba%2C%20M.%20Localized%20expression%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza-inducible%20ammonium%20transporters%20in%20soybean%202010)

[^Kobae_et+al_2016_a]: Kobae, Y., Ohmori, Y., Saito, C., Yano, K., Ohtomo, R., and Fujiwara, T. (2016). Phosphate treatment strongly inhibits new arbuscule development but not the maintenance of arbuscule in mycorrhizal rice roots. Plant Physiol. 171:566–579. [[Kobae_et+al_PhosphateTreatmentStronglyInhibitsArbuscule_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kobae%2C%20Y.%20Ohmori%2C%20Y.%20Saito%2C%20C.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Phosphate%20treatment%20strongly%20inhibits%20new%20arbuscule%20development%20but%20not%20the%20maintenance%20of%20arbuscule%20in%20mycorrhizal%20rice%20roots%202016)

[^Koide_1992_a]: Koide, R.T., and Schreiner, R.P. (1992). Regulation of the vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Annu. Rev. Plant Phys. 43:557–581. [[Koide_RegulationVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Schreiner%2C%20R.P.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Schreiner%2C%20R.P.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Schreiner%2C%20R.P.%20Regulation%20of%20the%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%201992)

[^Krajinski_et+al_2002_a]: Krajinski, F., Hause, B., Gianinazzi-Pearson, V., and Franken, P. (2002). Mtha1, a plasma membrane H+-ATPase gene from Medicago truncatula, shows arbuscule-specific induced expression in mycorrhizal tissue. Plant Biol. 4:754–761. [[Krajinski_et+al_Mtha1PlasmaMembraneHatpaseGene_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Mtha1%2C%20a%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20shows%20arbuscule-specific%20induced%20expression%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tissue%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Mtha1%2C%20a%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20shows%20arbuscule-specific%20induced%20expression%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tissue%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%2C%20V.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20Mtha1%2C%20a%20plasma%20membrane%20H%2B-ATPase%20gene%20from%20Medicago%20truncatula%2C%20shows%20arbuscule-specific%20induced%20expression%20in%20mycorrhizal%20tissue%202002)

[^Krajinski_et+al_2014_a]: Krajinski, F., Courty, P.E., Sieh, D., Franken, P., Zhang, H.Q., Bucher, M., Gerlach, N., Kryvoruchko, I., Zoeller, D., Udvardi, M., et al. (2014). The H+-ATPase HA1 of Medicago truncatula is essential for phosphate transport and plant growth during arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Cell 26:1808–1817. [[Krajinski_et+al_HatpaseHa1MedicagoTruncatulaEssential_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Krajinski%2C%20F.%20Courty%2C%20P.E.%20Sieh%2C%20D.%20Franken%2C%20P.%20The%20H%2B-ATPase%20HA1%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20is%20essential%20for%20phosphate%20transport%20and%20plant%20growth%20during%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014)

[^Kretzschmar_et+al_2012_a]: Kretzschmar, T., Kohlen, W., Sasse, J., Borghi, L., Schlegel, M., Bachelier, J.B., Reinhardt, D., Bours, R., Bouwmeester, H.J., and Martinoia, E. (2012). A petunia ABC protein controls strigolactonedependent symbiotic signalling and branching. Nature 483:341–344. [[Kretzschmar_et+al_PetuniaAbcProteinControlsStrigolactonedependent_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kretzschmar%2C%20T.%20Kohlen%2C%20W.%20Sasse%2C%20J.%20Borghi%2C%20L.%20A%20petunia%20ABC%20protein%20controls%20strigolactonedependent%20symbiotic%20signalling%20and%20branching%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kretzschmar%2C%20T.%20Kohlen%2C%20W.%20Sasse%2C%20J.%20Borghi%2C%20L.%20A%20petunia%20ABC%20protein%20controls%20strigolactonedependent%20symbiotic%20signalling%20and%20branching%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kretzschmar%2C%20T.%20Kohlen%2C%20W.%20Sasse%2C%20J.%20Borghi%2C%20L.%20A%20petunia%20ABC%20protein%20controls%20strigolactonedependent%20symbiotic%20signalling%20and%20branching%202012)

[^Leigh_et+al_2009_a]: Leigh, J., Hodge, A., and Fitter, A.H. (2009). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plant from organic material. New Phytol. 181:199–207. [[Leigh_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiTransferSubstantial_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009)

[^Lewis_1965_a]: Lewis, D.H., and Harley, J.L. (1965a). Carbohydrate physiology of mycorrhizal roots of beech. [[Lewis_CarbohydratePhysiologyMycorrhizalRootsBeech_1965]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lewis%2C%20D.H.%20Harley%2C%20J.L.%20Carbohydrate%20physiology%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20of%20beech%201965) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lewis%2C%20D.H.%20Harley%2C%20J.L.%20Carbohydrate%20physiology%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20of%20beech%201965) 

[^2]: Utilization of exogenous sugars by uninfected and mycorrhizal roots. New Phytol. 64:238. Lewis, D.H., and Harley, J.L. (1965b). Carbohydrate physiology of mycorrhizal roots of beech. [[Lewis_UtilizationExogenousSugarsUninfectedMycorrhizal_1965]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lewis%2C%20D.H.%20Harley%2C%20J.L.%20Utilization%20of%20exogenous%20sugars%20by%20uninfected%20and%20mycorrhizal%20roots%201965) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lewis%2C%20D.H.%20Harley%2C%20J.L.%20Utilization%20of%20exogenous%20sugars%20by%20uninfected%20and%20mycorrhizal%20roots%201965) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lewis%2C%20D.H.%20Harley%2C%20J.L.%20Utilization%20of%20exogenous%20sugars%20by%20uninfected%20and%20mycorrhizal%20roots%201965)

[^3]: Movement of sugars between host and fungus. New Phytol. 64:256. [[Movement_MovementSugarsBetweenHostFungus_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Movement%20of%20sugars%20between%20host%20and%20fungus%20New%20Phytol%2064256) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Movement%20of%20sugars%20between%20host%20and%20fungus%20New%20Phytol%2064256) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Movement%20of%20sugars%20between%20host%20and%20fungus%20New%20Phytol%2064256)

[^Manck-Gotzenberger_2016_a]: Manck-Gotzenberger, J., and Requena, N. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis induces a major transcriptional reprogramming of the potato SWEET sugar transporter family. Front. Plant Sci. 7. [[Manck-Gotzenberger_ArbuscularMycorrhizaSymbiosisInducesMajor_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Manck-Gotzenberger%2C%20J.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%20induces%20a%20major%20transcriptional%20reprogramming%20of%20the%20potato%20SWEET%20sugar%20transporter%20family%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Manck-Gotzenberger%2C%20J.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%20induces%20a%20major%20transcriptional%20reprogramming%20of%20the%20potato%20SWEET%20sugar%20transporter%20family%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Manck-Gotzenberger%2C%20J.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20symbiosis%20induces%20a%20major%20transcriptional%20reprogramming%20of%20the%20potato%20SWEET%20sugar%20transporter%20family%202016)

[^Martin_1985_a]: Martin, F. (1985). N-15-NMR studies of nitrogen assimilation and aminoacid biosynthesis in the ectomycorrhizal fungus Cenococcum graniforme. FEBS Lett. 182:350–354. [[Martin_15nmrStudiesNitrogenAssimilationAminoacid_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20N-15-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20aminoacid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martin%2C%20F.%20N-15-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20aminoacid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20N-15-NMR%20studies%20of%20nitrogen%20assimilation%20and%20aminoacid%20biosynthesis%20in%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungus%20Cenococcum%20graniforme%201985)

[^Miyata_et+al_2014_a]: Miyata, K., Kozaki, T., Kouzai, Y., Ozawa, K., Ishii, K., Asamizu, E., Okabe, Y., Umehara, Y., Miyamoto, A., Kobae, Y., et al. (2014). The bifunctional plant receptor, OsCERK1, regulates both chitintriggered immunity and arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis in rice. Plant Cell Physiol. 55:1864–1872. [[Miyata_et+al_BifunctionalPlantReceptorOscerk1Regulates_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Miyata%2C%20K.%20Kozaki%2C%20T.%20Kouzai%2C%20Y.%20Ozawa%2C%20K.%20The%20bifunctional%20plant%20receptor%2C%20OsCERK1%2C%20regulates%20both%20chitintriggered%20immunity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20rice%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Miyata%2C%20K.%20Kozaki%2C%20T.%20Kouzai%2C%20Y.%20Ozawa%2C%20K.%20The%20bifunctional%20plant%20receptor%2C%20OsCERK1%2C%20regulates%20both%20chitintriggered%20immunity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20rice%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Miyata%2C%20K.%20Kozaki%2C%20T.%20Kouzai%2C%20Y.%20Ozawa%2C%20K.%20The%20bifunctional%20plant%20receptor%2C%20OsCERK1%2C%20regulates%20both%20chitintriggered%20immunity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20rice%202014)

[^Ohlrogge_1995_a]: Ohlrogge, J., and Browse, J. (1995). Lipid biosynthesis. Plant Cell 7:957–970. [[Ohlrogge_LipidBiosynthesis_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.%20Browse%2C%20J.%20Lipid%20biosynthesis%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.%20Browse%2C%20J.%20Lipid%20biosynthesis%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.%20Browse%2C%20J.%20Lipid%20biosynthesis%201995)

[^Ohlrogge_1997_a]: Ohlrogge, J.B., and Jaworski, J.G. (1997). Regulation of fatty acid synthesis. Annu. Rev. Plant Phys. 48:109–136. [[Ohlrogge_RegulationFattyAcidSynthesis_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.B.%20Jaworski%2C%20J.G.%20Regulation%20of%20fatty%20acid%20synthesis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.B.%20Jaworski%2C%20J.G.%20Regulation%20of%20fatty%20acid%20synthesis%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ohlrogge%2C%20J.B.%20Jaworski%2C%20J.G.%20Regulation%20of%20fatty%20acid%20synthesis%201997)

[^Oldroyd_2013_a]: Oldroyd, G.E.D. (2013). Speak, friend, and enter: signalling systems that promote beneficial symbiotic associations in plants. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 11:252–263. [[Oldroyd_SpeakFriendEnterSignallingSystems_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.D.%20Speak%2C%20friend%2C%20and%20enter%3A%20signalling%20systems%20that%20promote%20beneficial%20symbiotic%20associations%20in%20plants%202013)

[^Ouziad_et+al_2005_a]: Ouziad, F., Hildebrandt, U., Schmelzer, E., and Bothe, H. (2005). Differential gene expressions in arbuscular mycorrhizal-colonized tomato grown under heavy metal stress. J. Plant Physiol. 162:634–649. [[Ouziad_et+al_DifferentialGeneExpressionsArbuscularMycorrhizalcolonized_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ouziad%2C%20F.%20Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Differential%20gene%20expressions%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal-colonized%20tomato%20grown%20under%20heavy%20metal%20stress%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ouziad%2C%20F.%20Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Differential%20gene%20expressions%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal-colonized%20tomato%20grown%20under%20heavy%20metal%20stress%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ouziad%2C%20F.%20Hildebrandt%2C%20U.%20Schmelzer%2C%20E.%20Bothe%2C%20H.%20Differential%20gene%20expressions%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal-colonized%20tomato%20grown%20under%20heavy%20metal%20stress%202005)

[^Parniske_2008_a]: Parniske, M. (2008). Arbuscular mycorrhiza: the mother of plant root endosymbioses. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 6:763–775. [[Parniske_ArbuscularMycorrhizaMotherPlantRoot_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008)

[^Paszkowski_et+al_2002_a]: Paszkowski, U., Kroken, S., Roux, C., and Briggs, S.P. (2002). Rice phosphate transporters include an evolutionarily divergent gene specifically activated in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99:13324–13329. [[Paszkowski_et+al_RicePhosphateTransportersIncludeEvolutionarily_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Kroken%2C%20S.%20Roux%2C%20C.%20Briggs%2C%20S.P.%20Rice%20phosphate%20transporters%20include%20an%20evolutionarily%20divergent%20gene%20specifically%20activated%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202002)

[^Pawlowska_2004_a]: Pawlowska, T.E., and Charvat, I. (2004). Heavy-metal stress and developmental patterns of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Appl. Environ. Microb. 70:6643–6649. [[Pawlowska_HeavymetalStressDevelopmentalPatternsArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Charvat%2C%20I.%20Heavy-metal%20stress%20and%20developmental%20patterns%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Charvat%2C%20I.%20Heavy-metal%20stress%20and%20developmental%20patterns%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Charvat%2C%20I.%20Heavy-metal%20stress%20and%20developmental%20patterns%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004)

[^Perez-Tienda_et+al_2011_a]: Perez-Tienda, J., Testillano, P.S., Balestrini, R., Fiorilli, V., AzconAguilar, C., and Ferrol, N. (2011). GintAMT2, a new member of the ammonium transporter family in the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices. Fungal Genet. Biol. 48:1044–1055. [[Perez-Tienda_et+al_Gintamt2MemberAmmoniumTransporterFamily_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Testillano%2C%20P.S.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20GintAMT2%2C%20a%20new%20member%20of%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Testillano%2C%20P.S.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20GintAMT2%2C%20a%20new%20member%20of%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Perez-Tienda%2C%20J.%20Testillano%2C%20P.S.%20Balestrini%2C%20R.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20GintAMT2%2C%20a%20new%20member%20of%20the%20ammonium%20transporter%20family%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202011)

[^Pfeffer_et+al_1999_a]: Pfeffer, P.E., Douds, D.D., Becard, G., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (1999). Carbon uptake and the metabolism and transport of lipids in an arbuscular mycorrhiza. Plant Physiol. 120:587–598. [[Pfeffer_et+al_CarbonUptakeMetabolismTransportLipids_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Douds%2C%20D.D.%20Becard%2C%20G.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20uptake%20and%20the%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20of%20lipids%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%201999)

[^Puga_et+al_2014_a]: Puga, M.I., Mateos, I., Charukesi, R., Wang, Z., Franco-Zorrilla, J.M., de Lorenzo, L., Irigoye, M.L., Masiero, S., Bustos, R., Rodriguez, J., et al. (2014). SPX1 is a phosphate-dependent inhibitor of PHOSPHATE STARVATION RESPONSE 1 in Arabidopsis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 111:14947–14952. [[Puga_et+al_Spx1PhosphatedependentInhibitorPhosphateStarvation_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Puga%2C%20M.I.%20Mateos%2C%20I.%20Charukesi%2C%20R.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20SPX1%20is%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20inhibitor%20of%20PHOSPHATE%20STARVATION%20RESPONSE%201%20in%20Arabidopsis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Puga%2C%20M.I.%20Mateos%2C%20I.%20Charukesi%2C%20R.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20SPX1%20is%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20inhibitor%20of%20PHOSPHATE%20STARVATION%20RESPONSE%201%20in%20Arabidopsis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Puga%2C%20M.I.%20Mateos%2C%20I.%20Charukesi%2C%20R.%20Wang%2C%20Z.%20SPX1%20is%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20inhibitor%20of%20PHOSPHATE%20STARVATION%20RESPONSE%201%20in%20Arabidopsis%202014)

[^Ramos_et+al_2009_a]: Ramos, A.C., Martins, M.A., Okorokova-Facanha, A.L., Olivares, F.L., Okorokov, L.A., Sepulveda, N., Feijo, J.A., and Facanha, A.R. (2009). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi induce differential activation of the plasma membrane and vacuolar H+ pumps in maize roots. Mycorrhiza 19:69–80. [[Ramos_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiInduceDifferential_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ramos%2C%20A.C.%20Martins%2C%20M.A.%20Okorokova-Facanha%2C%20A.L.%20Olivares%2C%20F.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20induce%20differential%20activation%20of%20the%20plasma%20membrane%20and%20vacuolar%20H%2B%20pumps%20in%20maize%20roots%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ramos%2C%20A.C.%20Martins%2C%20M.A.%20Okorokova-Facanha%2C%20A.L.%20Olivares%2C%20F.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20induce%20differential%20activation%20of%20the%20plasma%20membrane%20and%20vacuolar%20H%2B%20pumps%20in%20maize%20roots%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ramos%2C%20A.C.%20Martins%2C%20M.A.%20Okorokova-Facanha%2C%20A.L.%20Olivares%2C%20F.L.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20induce%20differential%20activation%20of%20the%20plasma%20membrane%20and%20vacuolar%20H%2B%20pumps%20in%20maize%20roots%202009)

[^Lopez-Pedrosa_et+al_2006_a]: Lopez-Pedrosa, A., Gonzalez-Guerrero, M., Valderas, A., AzconAguilar, C., and Ferrol, N. (2006). GintAMT1 encodes a functional high-affinity ammonium transporter that is expressed in the extraradical mycelium of Glomus intraradices. Fungal Genet. Biol. 43:102–110. [[Lopez-Pedrosa_et+al_Gintamt1EncodesFunctionalHighaffinityAmmonium_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lopez-Pedrosa%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20AzconAguilar%2C%20C.%20GintAMT1%20encodes%20a%20functional%20high-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20that%20is%20expressed%20in%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lopez-Pedrosa%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20AzconAguilar%2C%20C.%20GintAMT1%20encodes%20a%20functional%20high-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20that%20is%20expressed%20in%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lopez-Pedrosa%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez-Guerrero%2C%20M.%20Valderas%2C%20A.%20AzconAguilar%2C%20C.%20GintAMT1%20encodes%20a%20functional%20high-affinity%20ammonium%20transporter%20that%20is%20expressed%20in%20the%20extraradical%20mycelium%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%202006)

[^Luginbuehl_et+al_2017_a]: Luginbuehl, L.H., Menard, G.N., Kurup, S., Van Erp, H., Radhakrishnan, G.V., Breakspear, A., Oldroyd, G.E.D., and Eastmond, P.J. (2017). Fatty acids in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are synthesized by the host plant. Science 356:1175–1178. [[Luginbuehl_et+al_FattyAcidsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Van%20Erp%2C%20H.%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Van%20Erp%2C%20H.%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Luginbuehl%2C%20L.H.%20Menard%2C%20G.N.%20Kurup%2C%20S.%20Van%20Erp%2C%20H.%20Fatty%20acids%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20are%20synthesized%20by%20the%20host%20plant%202017)

[^Maldonado-Mendoza_et+al_2001_a]: Maldonado-Mendoza, I.E., Dewbre, G.R., and Harrison, M.J. (2001). A phosphate transporter gene from the extra-radical mycelium of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices is regulated in response to phosphate in the environment. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 14:1140–1148. [[Maldonado-Mendoza_et+al_PhosphateTransporterGeneFromExtraradical_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maldonado-Mendoza%2C%20I.E.%20Dewbre%2C%20G.R.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20gene%20from%20the%20extra-radical%20mycelium%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20is%20regulated%20in%20response%20to%20phosphate%20in%20the%20environment%202001)

[^Rausch_et+al_2001_a]: Rausch, C., Daram, P., Brunner, S., Jansa, J., Laloi, M., Leggewie, G., Amrhein, N., and Bucher, M. (2001). A phosphate transporter expressed in arbuscule-containing cells in potato. Nature 414: 462–466. [[Rausch_et+al_PhosphateTransporterExpressedArbusculecontainingCells_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Brunner%2C%20S.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20A%20phosphate%20transporter%20expressed%20in%20arbuscule-containing%20cells%20in%20potato%202001)

[^Roth_2017_a]: Roth, R., and Paszkowski, U. (2017). Plant carbon nourishment of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 39:50–56. [[Roth_PlantCarbonNourishmentArbuscularMycorrhizal_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Roth%2C%20R.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Plant%20carbon%20nourishment%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Roth%2C%20R.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Plant%20carbon%20nourishment%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Roth%2C%20R.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Plant%20carbon%20nourishment%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202017)

[^Rubio_et+al_2001_a]: Rubio, V., Linhares, F., Solano, R., Martin, A.C., Iglesias, J., Leyva, A., and Paz-Ares, J. (2001). A conserved MYB transcription factor involved in phosphate starvation signaling both in vascular plants and in unicellular algae. Gene Dev. 15:2122–2133. [[Rubio_et+al_ConservedMybTranscriptionFactorInvolved_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Linhares%2C%20F.%20Solano%2C%20R.%20Martin%2C%20A.C.%20A%20conserved%20MYB%20transcription%20factor%20involved%20in%20phosphate%20starvation%20signaling%20both%20in%20vascular%20plants%20and%20in%20unicellular%20algae%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Linhares%2C%20F.%20Solano%2C%20R.%20Martin%2C%20A.C.%20A%20conserved%20MYB%20transcription%20factor%20involved%20in%20phosphate%20starvation%20signaling%20both%20in%20vascular%20plants%20and%20in%20unicellular%20algae%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rubio%2C%20V.%20Linhares%2C%20F.%20Solano%2C%20R.%20Martin%2C%20A.C.%20A%20conserved%20MYB%20transcription%20factor%20involved%20in%20phosphate%20starvation%20signaling%20both%20in%20vascular%20plants%20and%20in%20unicellular%20algae%202001)

[^Russo_et+al_2013_a]: Russo, G., Spinella, S., Sciacca, E., Bonfante, P., and Genre, A. (2013). Automated analysis of calcium spiking profiles with CaSA software: two case studies from root-microbe symbioses. BMC Plant Biol. 13:224. [[Russo_et+al_AutomatedAnalysisCalciumSpikingProfiles_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Russo%2C%20G.%20Spinella%2C%20S.%20Sciacca%2C%20E.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Automated%20analysis%20of%20calcium%20spiking%20profiles%20with%20CaSA%20software%3A%20two%20case%20studies%20from%20root-microbe%20symbioses%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Russo%2C%20G.%20Spinella%2C%20S.%20Sciacca%2C%20E.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Automated%20analysis%20of%20calcium%20spiking%20profiles%20with%20CaSA%20software%3A%20two%20case%20studies%20from%20root-microbe%20symbioses%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Russo%2C%20G.%20Spinella%2C%20S.%20Sciacca%2C%20E.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20Automated%20analysis%20of%20calcium%20spiking%20profiles%20with%20CaSA%20software%3A%20two%20case%20studies%20from%20root-microbe%20symbioses%202013)

[^Salzer_1991_a]: Salzer, P., and Hager, A. (1991). Sucrose utilization of the ectomycorrhizal fungi Amanita muscaria and Hebeloma crustuliniforme depends on the cell wall-bound invertase activity of their host Picea abies. Bot. Acta 104:439–445. [[Salzer_SucroseUtilizationEctomycorrhizalFungiAmanita_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Salzer%2C%20P.%20Hager%2C%20A.%20Sucrose%20utilization%20of%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20Amanita%20muscaria%20and%20Hebeloma%20crustuliniforme%20depends%20on%20the%20cell%20wall-bound%20invertase%20activity%20of%20their%20host%20Picea%20abies%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Salzer%2C%20P.%20Hager%2C%20A.%20Sucrose%20utilization%20of%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20Amanita%20muscaria%20and%20Hebeloma%20crustuliniforme%20depends%20on%20the%20cell%20wall-bound%20invertase%20activity%20of%20their%20host%20Picea%20abies%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Salzer%2C%20P.%20Hager%2C%20A.%20Sucrose%20utilization%20of%20the%20ectomycorrhizal%20fungi%20Amanita%20muscaria%20and%20Hebeloma%20crustuliniforme%20depends%20on%20the%20cell%20wall-bound%20invertase%20activity%20of%20their%20host%20Picea%20abies%201991)

[^Schaarschmidt_et+al_2006_a]: Schaarschmidt, S., Roitsch, T., and Hause, B. (2006). Arbuscular mycorrhiza induces gene expression of the apoplastic invertase LIN6 in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) roots. J. Exp. Bot. 57:4015–4023. [[Schaarschmidt_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizaInducesGeneExpression_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20induces%20gene%20expression%20of%20the%20apoplastic%20invertase%20LIN6%20in%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%29%20roots%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20induces%20gene%20expression%20of%20the%20apoplastic%20invertase%20LIN6%20in%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%29%20roots%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Hause%2C%20B.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20induces%20gene%20expression%20of%20the%20apoplastic%20invertase%20LIN6%20in%20tomato%20%28Lycopersicon%20esculentum%29%20roots%202006)

[^Schaarschmidt_et+al_2007_a]: Schaarschmidt, S., Gonzalez, M.C., Roitsch, T., Strack, D., Sonnewald, U., and Hause, B. (2007). Regulation of arbuscular mycorrhization by carbon. The symbiotic interaction cannot be improved by increased carbon availability accomplished by rootspecifically enhanced invertase activity. Plant Physiol. 143:1827–1840. [[Schaarschmidt_et+al_RegulationArbuscularMycorrhizationCarbonThe_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Gonzalez%2C%20M.C.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhization%20by%20carbon.%20The%20symbiotic%20interaction%20cannot%20be%20improved%20by%20increased%20carbon%20availability%20accomplished%20by%20rootspecifically%20enhanced%20invertase%20activity%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Gonzalez%2C%20M.C.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhization%20by%20carbon.%20The%20symbiotic%20interaction%20cannot%20be%20improved%20by%20increased%20carbon%20availability%20accomplished%20by%20rootspecifically%20enhanced%20invertase%20activity%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schaarschmidt%2C%20S.%20Gonzalez%2C%20M.C.%20Roitsch%2C%20T.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Regulation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhization%20by%20carbon.%20The%20symbiotic%20interaction%20cannot%20be%20improved%20by%20increased%20carbon%20availability%20accomplished%20by%20rootspecifically%20enhanced%20invertase%20activity%202007)

[^Schliemann_et+al_2008_a]: Schliemann, W., Ammer, C., and Strack, D. (2008). Metabolite profiling of mycorrhizal roots of Medicago truncatula. Phytochemistry 69:112–146. [[Schliemann_et+al_MetaboliteProfilingMycorrhizalRootsMedicago_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schliemann%2C%20W.%20Ammer%2C%20C.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Metabolite%20profiling%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schliemann%2C%20W.%20Ammer%2C%20C.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Metabolite%20profiling%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schliemann%2C%20W.%20Ammer%2C%20C.%20Strack%2C%20D.%20Metabolite%20profiling%20of%20mycorrhizal%20roots%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202008)

[^Schubert_et+al_2004_a]: Schubert, A., Allara, P., and Morte, A. (2004). Cleavage of sucrose in roots of soybean (Glycine max) colonized by an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol. 161:495–501. [[Schubert_et+al_CleavageSucroseRootsSoybeanglycine_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schubert%2C%20A.%20Allara%2C%20P.%20Morte%2C%20A.%20Cleavage%20of%20sucrose%20in%20roots%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%29%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schubert%2C%20A.%20Allara%2C%20P.%20Morte%2C%20A.%20Cleavage%20of%20sucrose%20in%20roots%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%29%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schubert%2C%20A.%20Allara%2C%20P.%20Morte%2C%20A.%20Cleavage%20of%20sucrose%20in%20roots%20of%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%29%20colonized%20by%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202004)

[^Schussler_et+al_2006_b]: Schussler, A., Martin, H., Cohen, D., Fitz, M., and Wipf, D. (2006). Characterization of a carbohydrate transporter from symbiotic glomeromycotan fungi. Nature 444:933–936. [[Schussler_et+al_CharacterizationCarbohydrateTransporterFromSymbiotic_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schussler%2C%20A.%20Martin%2C%20H.%20Cohen%2C%20D.%20Fitz%2C%20M.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20carbohydrate%20transporter%20from%20symbiotic%20glomeromycotan%20fungi%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schussler%2C%20A.%20Martin%2C%20H.%20Cohen%2C%20D.%20Fitz%2C%20M.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20carbohydrate%20transporter%20from%20symbiotic%20glomeromycotan%20fungi%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schussler%2C%20A.%20Martin%2C%20H.%20Cohen%2C%20D.%20Fitz%2C%20M.%20Characterization%20of%20a%20carbohydrate%20transporter%20from%20symbiotic%20glomeromycotan%20fungi%202006)

[^Sieh_et+al_2013_a]: Sieh, D., Watanabe, M., Devers, E.A., Brueckner, F., Hoefgen, R., and Krajinski, F. (2013). The arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis influences sulfur starvation responses of Medicago truncatula. New Phytol. 197:606–616. [[Sieh_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisInfluencesSulfur_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sieh%2C%20D.%20Watanabe%2C%20M.%20Devers%2C%20E.A.%20Brueckner%2C%20F.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20influences%20sulfur%20starvation%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sieh%2C%20D.%20Watanabe%2C%20M.%20Devers%2C%20E.A.%20Brueckner%2C%20F.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20influences%20sulfur%20starvation%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sieh%2C%20D.%20Watanabe%2C%20M.%20Devers%2C%20E.A.%20Brueckner%2C%20F.%20The%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20influences%20sulfur%20starvation%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%202013)

[^Smith_et+al_1969_a]: Smith, D., Muscatine, L., and Lewis, D. (1969). Carbohydrate movement from autotrophs to heterotrophs in parasitic and mutualistic symbiosis. Biol. Rev. 44:17. [[Smith_et+al_CarbohydrateMovementFromAutotrophsHeterotrophs_1969]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20D.%20Muscatine%2C%20L.%20Lewis%2C%20D.%20Carbohydrate%20movement%20from%20autotrophs%20to%20heterotrophs%20in%20parasitic%20and%20mutualistic%20symbiosis%201969) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20D.%20Muscatine%2C%20L.%20Lewis%2C%20D.%20Carbohydrate%20movement%20from%20autotrophs%20to%20heterotrophs%20in%20parasitic%20and%20mutualistic%20symbiosis%201969) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20D.%20Muscatine%2C%20L.%20Lewis%2C%20D.%20Carbohydrate%20movement%20from%20autotrophs%20to%20heterotrophs%20in%20parasitic%20and%20mutualistic%20symbiosis%201969)

[^Smith_et+al_1985_a]: Smith, S.E., Stjohn, B.J., Smith, F.A., and Nicholas, D.J.D. (1985). Activity of glutamine-synthetase and glutamate-dehydrogenase in Trifolium subterraneum L. and Allium cepa L. - effects of mycorrhizal infection and phosphate nutrition. New Phytol. 99:211–227. [[Smith_et+al_ActivityGlutaminesynthetaseGlutamatedehydrogenaseTrifoliumSubterraneum_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Stjohn%2C%20B.J.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Nicholas%2C%20D.J.D.%20Activity%20of%20glutamine-synthetase%20and%20glutamate-dehydrogenase%20in%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%20and%20Allium%20cepa%20L.%20-%20effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20phosphate%20nutrition%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Stjohn%2C%20B.J.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Nicholas%2C%20D.J.D.%20Activity%20of%20glutamine-synthetase%20and%20glutamate-dehydrogenase%20in%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%20and%20Allium%20cepa%20L.%20-%20effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20phosphate%20nutrition%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Stjohn%2C%20B.J.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Nicholas%2C%20D.J.D.%20Activity%20of%20glutamine-synthetase%20and%20glutamate-dehydrogenase%20in%20Trifolium%20subterraneum%20L.%20and%20Allium%20cepa%20L.%20-%20effects%20of%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20and%20phosphate%20nutrition%201985)

[^Smith_et+al_2003_a]: Smith, S.E., Smith, F.A., and Jakobsen, I. (2003). Mycorrhizal fungi can dominate phosphate supply to plants irrespective of growth responses. Plant Physiol. 133:16–20. [[Smith_et+al_MycorrhizalFungiDominatePhosphateSupply_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20dominate%20phosphate%20supply%20to%20plants%20irrespective%20of%20growth%20responses%202003)

[^Smith_1988_a]: Smith, S.E., and Gianinazzipearson, V. (1988). Physiological interactions between symbionts in vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal plants. Annu. Rev. Plant Phys. 39:221–244. [[Smith_PhysiologicalInteractionsBetweenSymbiontsVesiculararbuscular_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Gianinazzipearson%2C%20V.%20Physiological%20interactions%20between%20symbionts%20in%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Gianinazzipearson%2C%20V.%20Physiological%20interactions%20between%20symbionts%20in%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Gianinazzipearson%2C%20V.%20Physiological%20interactions%20between%20symbionts%20in%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201988)

[^Solaiman_1997_a]: Solaiman, M.D.Z., and Saito, M. (1997). Use of sugars by intraradical hyphae of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi revealed by radiorespirometry. New Phytol. 136:533–538. [[Solaiman_SugarsIntraradicalHyphaeArbuscularMycorrhizal_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Solaiman%2C%20M.D.Z.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Use%20of%20sugars%20by%20intraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20revealed%20by%20radiorespirometry%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Solaiman%2C%20M.D.Z.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Use%20of%20sugars%20by%20intraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20revealed%20by%20radiorespirometry%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Solaiman%2C%20M.D.Z.%20Saito%2C%20M.%20Use%20of%20sugars%20by%20intraradical%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20revealed%20by%20radiorespirometry%201997)

[^Tisserant_et+al_2013_a]: Tisserant, E., Malbreil, M., Kuo, A., Kohler, A., Symeonidi, A., Balestrini, R., Charron, P., Duensing, N., Frey, N.F.D., GianinazziPearson, V., et al. (2013). Genome of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the oldest plant symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110:20117–20122. [[Tisserant_et+al_GenomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusProvides_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Genome%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20oldest%20plant%20symbiosis%202013)

[^Tobar_et+al_1994_a]: Tobar, R., Azcon, R., and Barea, J.M. (1994). Improved nitrogen uptake and transport from N-15-labeled nitrate by external hyphae of arbuscular mycorrhiza under water-stressed conditions. New Phytol. 126:119–122. [[Tobar_et+al_ImprovedNitrogenUptakeTransportFrom_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tobar%2C%20R.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Improved%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20from%20N-15-labeled%20nitrate%20by%20external%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20under%20water-stressed%20conditions%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tobar%2C%20R.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Improved%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20from%20N-15-labeled%20nitrate%20by%20external%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20under%20water-stressed%20conditions%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tobar%2C%20R.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Improved%20nitrogen%20uptake%20and%20transport%20from%20N-15-labeled%20nitrate%20by%20external%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20under%20water-stressed%20conditions%201994)

[^Vezina_et+al_1989_a]: Vezina, L.P., Margolis, H.A., MacAfee, B.J., and Delaney, S. (1989). Changes in the activity of enzymes involved with primary nitrogenmetabolism due to ectomycorrhizal symbiosis on Jack Pine seedlings. Physiol. Plantarum 75:55–62. [[Vezina_et+al_ChangesActivityEnzymesInvolvedWith_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vezina%2C%20L.P.%20Margolis%2C%20H.A.%20MacAfee%2C%20B.J.%20Delaney%2C%20S.%20Changes%20in%20the%20activity%20of%20enzymes%20involved%20with%20primary%20nitrogenmetabolism%20due%20to%20ectomycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20on%20Jack%20Pine%20seedlings%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vezina%2C%20L.P.%20Margolis%2C%20H.A.%20MacAfee%2C%20B.J.%20Delaney%2C%20S.%20Changes%20in%20the%20activity%20of%20enzymes%20involved%20with%20primary%20nitrogenmetabolism%20due%20to%20ectomycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20on%20Jack%20Pine%20seedlings%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vezina%2C%20L.P.%20Margolis%2C%20H.A.%20MacAfee%2C%20B.J.%20Delaney%2C%20S.%20Changes%20in%20the%20activity%20of%20enzymes%20involved%20with%20primary%20nitrogenmetabolism%20due%20to%20ectomycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20on%20Jack%20Pine%20seedlings%201989)

[^Volpe_et+al_2016_a]: Volpe, V., Giovannetti, M., Sun, X.G., Fiorilli, V., and Bonfante, P. (2016). The phosphate transporters LjPT4 and MtPT4 mediate early root responses to phosphate status in non mycorrhizal roots. Plant Cell Environ. 39:660–671. [[Volpe_et+al_PhosphateTransportersLjpt4Mtpt4Mediate_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Volpe%2C%20V.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Sun%2C%20X.G.%20Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20The%20phosphate%20transporters%20LjPT4%20and%20MtPT4%20mediate%20early%20root%20responses%20to%20phosphate%20status%20in%20non%20mycorrhizal%20roots%202016)

[^Wang_et+al_2012_a]: Wang, E.T., Schornack, S., Marsh, J.F., Gobbato, E., Schwessinger, B., Eastmond, P., Schultze, M., Kamoun, S., and Oldroyd, G.E.D. (2012). A common signaling process that promotes mycorrhizal and oomycete colonization of plants. Curr. Biol. 22:2242–2246. [[Wang_et+al_CommonSignalingProcessThatPromotes_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Schornack%2C%20S.%20Marsh%2C%20J.F.%20Gobbato%2C%20E.%20A%20common%20signaling%20process%20that%20promotes%20mycorrhizal%20and%20oomycete%20colonization%20of%20plants%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Schornack%2C%20S.%20Marsh%2C%20J.F.%20Gobbato%2C%20E.%20A%20common%20signaling%20process%20that%20promotes%20mycorrhizal%20and%20oomycete%20colonization%20of%20plants%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Schornack%2C%20S.%20Marsh%2C%20J.F.%20Gobbato%2C%20E.%20A%20common%20signaling%20process%20that%20promotes%20mycorrhizal%20and%20oomycete%20colonization%20of%20plants%202012)

[^Wang_et+al_2014_a]: Wang, E.T., Yu, N., Bano, S.A., Liu, C.W., Miller, A.J., Cousins, D., Zhang, X.W., Ratet, P., Tadege, M., Mysore, K.S., et al. (2014a). A H+-ATPase that energizes nutrient uptake during mycorrhizal symbioses in rice and Medicago truncatula. Plant Cell 26:1818–1830. [[Wang_et+al_HatpaseThatEnergizesNutrientUptake_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20Bano%2C%20S.A.%20Liu%2C%20C.W.%20A%20H%2B-ATPase%20that%20energizes%20nutrient%20uptake%20during%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20rice%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20Bano%2C%20S.A.%20Liu%2C%20C.W.%20A%20H%2B-ATPase%20that%20energizes%20nutrient%20uptake%20during%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20rice%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20E.T.%20Yu%2C%20N.%20Bano%2C%20S.A.%20Liu%2C%20C.W.%20A%20H%2B-ATPase%20that%20energizes%20nutrient%20uptake%20during%20mycorrhizal%20symbioses%20in%20rice%20and%20Medicago%20truncatula%202014)

[^Wang_et+al_2014_b]: Wang, Z.Y., Ruan, W.Y., Shi, J., Zhang, L., Xiang, D., Yang, C., Li, C.Y., Wu, Z.C., Liu, Y., Yu, Y.A., et al. (2014b). Rice SPX1 and SPX2 inhibit phosphate starvation responses through interacting with PHR2 in a phosphate-dependent manner. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 111: 14953–14958. [[Wang_et+al_RiceSpx1Spx2InhibitPhosphate_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20Z.Y.%20Ruan%2C%20W.Y.%20Shi%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20L.%20Rice%20SPX1%20and%20SPX2%20inhibit%20phosphate%20starvation%20responses%20through%20interacting%20with%20PHR2%20in%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20manner%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20Z.Y.%20Ruan%2C%20W.Y.%20Shi%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20L.%20Rice%20SPX1%20and%20SPX2%20inhibit%20phosphate%20starvation%20responses%20through%20interacting%20with%20PHR2%20in%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20manner%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20Z.Y.%20Ruan%2C%20W.Y.%20Shi%2C%20J.%20Zhang%2C%20L.%20Rice%20SPX1%20and%20SPX2%20inhibit%20phosphate%20starvation%20responses%20through%20interacting%20with%20PHR2%20in%20a%20phosphate-dependent%20manner%202014)

[^Waters_et+al_2017_a]: Waters, M.T., Gutjahr, C., Bennett, T., and Nelson, D.C. (2017). Strigolactone signaling and evolution. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 68:291–322. [[Waters_et+al_StrigolactoneSignalingEvolution_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Waters%2C%20M.T.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Bennett%2C%20T.%20Nelson%2C%20D.C.%20Strigolactone%20signaling%20and%20evolution%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Waters%2C%20M.T.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Bennett%2C%20T.%20Nelson%2C%20D.C.%20Strigolactone%20signaling%20and%20evolution%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Waters%2C%20M.T.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Bennett%2C%20T.%20Nelson%2C%20D.C.%20Strigolactone%20signaling%20and%20evolution%202017)

[^Weissenhorn_et+al_1995_a]: Weissenhorn, I., Leyval, C., Belgy, G., and Berthelin, J. (1995). Arbuscular mycorrhizal contribution to heavy-metal uptake by maize (Zea mays L.) in pot culture with contaminated soil. Mycorrhiza 5:245–251. [[Weissenhorn_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalContributionHeavymetalUptake_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Weissenhorn%2C%20I.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Belgy%2C%20G.%20Berthelin%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20heavy-metal%20uptake%20by%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20in%20pot%20culture%20with%20contaminated%20soil%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weissenhorn%2C%20I.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Belgy%2C%20G.%20Berthelin%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20heavy-metal%20uptake%20by%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20in%20pot%20culture%20with%20contaminated%20soil%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Weissenhorn%2C%20I.%20Leyval%2C%20C.%20Belgy%2C%20G.%20Berthelin%2C%20J.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20heavy-metal%20uptake%20by%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20in%20pot%20culture%20with%20contaminated%20soil%201995)

[^Wewer_et+al_2014_a]: Wewer, V., Brands, M., and Dormann, P. (2014). Fatty acid synthesis and lipid metabolism in the obligate biotrophic fungus Rhizophagus irregularis during mycorrhization of Lotus japonicus. Plant J. 79:398–412. [[Wewer_et+al_FattyAcidSynthesisLipidMetabolism_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wewer%2C%20V.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Fatty%20acid%20synthesis%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%20in%20the%20obligate%20biotrophic%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%20during%20mycorrhization%20of%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wewer%2C%20V.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Fatty%20acid%20synthesis%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%20in%20the%20obligate%20biotrophic%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%20during%20mycorrhization%20of%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wewer%2C%20V.%20Brands%2C%20M.%20Dormann%2C%20P.%20Fatty%20acid%20synthesis%20and%20lipid%20metabolism%20in%20the%20obligate%20biotrophic%20fungus%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%20during%20mycorrhization%20of%20Lotus%20japonicus%202014)

[^Wild_et+al_2016_a]: Wild, R., Gerasimaite, R., Jung, J.Y., Truffault, V., Pavlovic, I., Schmidt, A., Saiardi, A., Jessen, H.J., Poirier, Y., Hothorn, M., et al. (2016). Control of eukaryotic phosphate homeostasis by inositol polyphosphate sensor domains. Science 352:986–990. [[Wild_et+al_ControlEukaryoticPhosphateHomeostasisInositol_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wild%2C%20R.%20Gerasimaite%2C%20R.%20Jung%2C%20J.Y.%20Truffault%2C%20V.%20Control%20of%20eukaryotic%20phosphate%20homeostasis%20by%20inositol%20polyphosphate%20sensor%20domains%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wild%2C%20R.%20Gerasimaite%2C%20R.%20Jung%2C%20J.Y.%20Truffault%2C%20V.%20Control%20of%20eukaryotic%20phosphate%20homeostasis%20by%20inositol%20polyphosphate%20sensor%20domains%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wild%2C%20R.%20Gerasimaite%2C%20R.%20Jung%2C%20J.Y.%20Truffault%2C%20V.%20Control%20of%20eukaryotic%20phosphate%20homeostasis%20by%20inositol%20polyphosphate%20sensor%20domains%202016)

[^Wipf_et+al_2014_a]: Wipf, D., Mongelard, G., van Tuinen, D., Gutierrez, L., and Casieri, L. (2014). Transcriptional responses of Medicago truncatula upon sulfur deficiency stress and arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Front. Plant Sci. 5:680. [[Wipf_et+al_TranscriptionalResponsesMedicagoTruncatulaUpon_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wipf%2C%20D.%20Mongelard%2C%20G.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Gutierrez%2C%20L.%20Transcriptional%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20upon%20sulfur%20deficiency%20stress%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wipf%2C%20D.%20Mongelard%2C%20G.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Gutierrez%2C%20L.%20Transcriptional%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20upon%20sulfur%20deficiency%20stress%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wipf%2C%20D.%20Mongelard%2C%20G.%20van%20Tuinen%2C%20D.%20Gutierrez%2C%20L.%20Transcriptional%20responses%20of%20Medicago%20truncatula%20upon%20sulfur%20deficiency%20stress%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202014)

[^Wu_et+al_2013_a]: Wu, P., Shou, H.X., Xu, G.H., and Lian, X.M. (2013). Improvement of phosphorus efficiency in rice on the basis of understanding phosphate signaling and homeostasis. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 16:205–212. [[Wu_et+al_ImprovementPhosphorusEfficiencyRiceBasis_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wu%2C%20P.%20Shou%2C%20H.X.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Lian%2C%20X.M.%20Improvement%20of%20phosphorus%20efficiency%20in%20rice%20on%20the%20basis%20of%20understanding%20phosphate%20signaling%20and%20homeostasis%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wu%2C%20P.%20Shou%2C%20H.X.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Lian%2C%20X.M.%20Improvement%20of%20phosphorus%20efficiency%20in%20rice%20on%20the%20basis%20of%20understanding%20phosphate%20signaling%20and%20homeostasis%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wu%2C%20P.%20Shou%2C%20H.X.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Lian%2C%20X.M.%20Improvement%20of%20phosphorus%20efficiency%20in%20rice%20on%20the%20basis%20of%20understanding%20phosphate%20signaling%20and%20homeostasis%202013)

[^Xie_et+al_2016_a]: Xie, X.A., Lin, H., Peng, X.W., Xu, C.R., Sun, Z.F., Jiang, K.X., Huang, A., Wu, X.H., Tang, N.W., Salvioli, A., et al. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis requires a phosphate transceptor in the Gigaspora margarita fungal symbiont. Mol. Plant 9:1583–1608. [[Xie_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosisRequiresPhosphate_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xie%2C%20X.A.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.W.%20Xu%2C%20C.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xie%2C%20X.A.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.W.%20Xu%2C%20C.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xie%2C%20X.A.%20Lin%2C%20H.%20Peng%2C%20X.W.%20Xu%2C%20C.R.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20requires%20a%20phosphate%20transceptor%20in%20the%20Gigaspora%20margarita%20fungal%20symbiont%202016)

[^Yang_et+al_2012_a]: Yang, S.Y., Gronlund, M., Jakobsen, I., Grotemeyer, M.S., Rentsch, D., Miyao, A., Hirochika, H., Kumar, C.S., Sundaresan, V., Salamin, N., et al. (2012). Nonredundant regulation of rice arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis by two members of the PHOSPHATE TRANSPORTER1 gene family. Plant Cell 24:4236–4251. [[Yang_et+al_NonredundantRegulationRiceArbuscularMycorrhizal_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yang%2C%20S.Y.%20Gronlund%2C%20M.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Grotemeyer%2C%20M.S.%20Nonredundant%20regulation%20of%20rice%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20by%20two%20members%20of%20the%20PHOSPHATE%20TRANSPORTER1%20gene%20family%202012)

[^Yoneyama_et+al_2012_a]: Yoneyama, K., Xie, X.N., Kim, H.I., Kisugi, T., Nomura, T., Sekimoto, H., Yokota, T., and Yoneyama, K. (2012). How do nitrogen and phosphorus deficiencies affect strigolactone production and exudation? Planta 235:1197–1207. [[Yoneyama_et+al_NitrogenPhosphorusDeficienciesAffectStrigolactone_2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yoneyama%2C%20K.%20Xie%2C%20X.N.%20Kim%2C%20H.I.%20Kisugi%2C%20T.%20How%20do%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20deficiencies%20affect%20strigolactone%20production%20and%20exudation%3F%20Planta%20235%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yoneyama%2C%20K.%20Xie%2C%20X.N.%20Kim%2C%20H.I.%20Kisugi%2C%20T.%20How%20do%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20deficiencies%20affect%20strigolactone%20production%20and%20exudation%3F%20Planta%20235%202012) 

[^Yu_et+al_2014_a]: Yu, N., Luo, D.X., Zhang, X.W., Liu, J.Z., Wang, W.X., Jin, Y., Dong, W.T., Liu, J.Y., Liu, H., Yang, W.B., et al. (2014). A DELLA protein complex controls the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis in plants. Cell Res. 24:130–133. [[Yu_et+al_DellaProteinComplexControlsArbuscular_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yu%2C%20N.%20Luo%2C%20D.X.%20Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Liu%2C%20J.Z.%20A%20DELLA%20protein%20complex%20controls%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20plants%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20N.%20Luo%2C%20D.X.%20Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Liu%2C%20J.Z.%20A%20DELLA%20protein%20complex%20controls%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20plants%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yu%2C%20N.%20Luo%2C%20D.X.%20Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Liu%2C%20J.Z.%20A%20DELLA%20protein%20complex%20controls%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20plants%202014)

[^Zhang_et+al_2010_a]: Zhang, Q., Blaylock, L.A., and Harrison, M.J. (2010). Two Medicago truncatula half-ABC transporters are essential for arbuscule development in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant Cell 22: 1483–1497. [[Zhang_et+al_MedicagoTruncatulaHalfabcTransportersEssential_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Two%20Medicago%20truncatula%20half-ABC%20transporters%20are%20essential%20for%20arbuscule%20development%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Two%20Medicago%20truncatula%20half-ABC%20transporters%20are%20essential%20for%20arbuscule%20development%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Blaylock%2C%20L.A.%20Harrison%2C%20M.J.%20Two%20Medicago%20truncatula%20half-ABC%20transporters%20are%20essential%20for%20arbuscule%20development%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202010)

[^Zhang_et+al_2015_a]: Zhang, X.W., Dong, W.T., Sun, J.H., Feng, F., Deng, Y.W., He, Z.H., Oldroyd, G.E.D., and Wang, E.T. (2015). The receptor kinase CERK1 has dual functions in symbiosis and immunity signalling. Plant J. 81:258–267. [[Zhang_et+al_ReceptorKinaseCerk1DualFunctions_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Dong%2C%20W.T.%20Sun%2C%20J.H.%20Feng%2C%20F.%20The%20receptor%20kinase%20CERK1%20has%20dual%20functions%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%20signalling%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Dong%2C%20W.T.%20Sun%2C%20J.H.%20Feng%2C%20F.%20The%20receptor%20kinase%20CERK1%20has%20dual%20functions%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%20signalling%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20X.W.%20Dong%2C%20W.T.%20Sun%2C%20J.H.%20Feng%2C%20F.%20The%20receptor%20kinase%20CERK1%20has%20dual%20functions%20in%20symbiosis%20and%20immunity%20signalling%202015)

[^Zhou_et+al_2008_a]: Zhou, J., Jiao, F.C., Wu, Z.C., Li, Y.Y., Wang, X.M., He, X.W., Zhong, W.Q., and Wu, P. (2008). OsPHR2 is involved in phosphatestarvation signaling and excessive phosphate accumulation in shoots of plants. Plant Physiol. 146:1673–1686. [[Zhou_et+al_Osphr2InvolvedPhosphatestarvationSignalingExcessive_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhou%2C%20J.%20Jiao%2C%20F.C.%20Wu%2C%20Z.C.%20Li%2C%20Y.Y.%20OsPHR2%20is%20involved%20in%20phosphatestarvation%20signaling%20and%20excessive%20phosphate%20accumulation%20in%20shoots%20of%20plants.%20Plant%20Physiol.%20146%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhou%2C%20J.%20Jiao%2C%20F.C.%20Wu%2C%20Z.C.%20Li%2C%20Y.Y.%20OsPHR2%20is%20involved%20in%20phosphatestarvation%20signaling%20and%20excessive%20phosphate%20accumulation%20in%20shoots%20of%20plants.%20Plant%20Physiol.%20146%202008) 

[^Molecular_2017_b]: Molecular Plant 10, 1147–1158, September 2017 a The Author 2017. [[Molecular_MolecularPlant1011471158September_2017]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Molecular%20Plant%2010%2011471158%20September%202017%20a%20The%20Author%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Molecular%20Plant%2010%2011471158%20September%202017%20a%20The%20Author%202017) 

