[[Zhang_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiIncreaseGrain_2018]]

# [Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi increase grain yields: a meta‐analysis](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/nph.15570)

## [[Shujuan Zhang]]; [[Anika Lehmann]]; [[Weishuang Zheng]] et al.

### 2018

## Abstract
Increasing grain yields of food cereal crops is a major goal in future sustainable agriculture. We quantitatively analyzed the potential role of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi in enhancing grain yields of seven cereal crops with exceptional importance for human nutrition across the globe: corn, wheat, rice, barley, sorghum, millet and oat.  We conducted a meta-analysis for three datasets including both English and Chinese language publications: the ‘whole’ dataset including both laboratory and field studies (168 articles); the ‘field’ dataset comprising only field studies (97 studies); and the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset including only AM fungal inoculation studies conducted in field conditions (70 articles).  ==We found that the AM fungal effect on grain yield was less pronounced in field and noninoculation studies==. AM fungal inoculation in field led to a 16% increase (overall effect) based on the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset; this effect was variable (77% trials had positive values), crop-specific, lower for new cultivars released after 1950 and further modulated by soil pH.  Although there are neutral and negative effects of AM fungi on grain yields, we emphasize the importance of integrating AM fungi in sustainable agriculture to increase grain yields of cereal crops.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #finding/inoculation; #claim/meta_analysis; #finding/grain_yield; #finding/wheat; #finding/rice; #claim/potassium; #finding/corn; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #soil_organic_matter; #confidence_intervals; #claim/symbiosis; #claim/cereal_crop; #finding/field_studies; #standard_errors; #sustainable_agriculture; #PRISMA; #claim/human_nutrition; #triticum_aestivum; #claim/chinese_language

## Quote
> We found that the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal effect on grain yield was less pronounced in field and noninoculation studies


## Key points
- Feeding people depends heavily on c. 100 crop plants ([^Prescottallen_1990_a]) of several thousand edible plant species worldwide (FAO, 1995)
- Increasing grain yields of food cereal crops is a major goal in future sustainable agriculture
- We conducted a meta-analysis for three datasets including both English and Chinese language publications: the ‘whole’ dataset including both laboratory and field studies (168 articles); the ‘field’ dataset comprising only field studies (97 studies); and the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset including only arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal inoculation studies conducted in field conditions (70 articles)
- We found that the AM fungal effect on grain yield was less pronounced in field and noninoculation studies
- AM fungal inoculation in field led to a 16% increase based on the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset; this effect was variable (77% trials had positive values), crop-specific, lower for new cultivars released after 1950 and further modulated by soil pH
- There are neutral and negative effects of AM fungi on grain yields, we emphasize the importance of integrating AM fungi in sustainable agriculture to increase grain yields of cereal crops

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Feeding people depends heavily on c. 100 crop plants ([^Prescottallen_1990_a]) of several thousand edible plant species worldwide (FAO, 1995).
It is alarming that grain yields of many of these cereal crops plateaued in the 21st century in major production regions as East Asia, Northwest Europe and India ([^Grassini_et+al_2013_a]), while the authors are faced with the need to feed an ever-increasing size of human population
Reasons for this are manifold and include land degradation, impoverishment and contamination of soils, and agricultural mismanagement.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are a promising option in terms of sustainable agriculture and food security ([^Rillig_et+al_2016_a]; [^Thirkell_et+al_2017_a])
These fungi are integral components of soil and plant roots forming a symbiosis with many cereal crops ([^Smith_2011_a]).

### Methods
Literature search<br/><br/>This meta-analysis followed the PRISMA guidelines ([^Moher_2009_a]) (Supporting Information Fig. S1).
The authors focused on cereal crops with exceptional importance for human nutrition that are grown worldwide ([^Awika_2011_a]): corn, wheat, rice, barley, sorghum, millet and oat.
The authors searched both Web of Knowledge (WOK, http://apps.webofknowledge.com/) and China National Knowledge infrastructure database (CNKI, http://www.cnki.net/) accessed 4 July 2017 and updated on 12 November 2017 to collect any newly published articles.
The authors found no significant differences in the effect sizes between Chinese and English publications (Table S2) so that the authors combined all studies to enhance statistical power.
168 studies complied with the inclusion criteria and formed the ‘whole’ dataset (Notes S1, S2); 97 studies formed the ‘field’ dataset and 70 studies comprised the ‘fieldinoculation’ dataset (Fig. 1a)

### Results
Considering all 168 studies, the authors found an overall positive AM fungal effect on grain yield (21% increase, CI = (16–26%), Fig. 2a) in ‘whole’ dataset.
When differentiating field and lab studies, the authors found higher effect size estimates for lab studies (Fig. 2a), which was true for all five investigated crops.
The authors tested in ‘field’ dataset the importance of the AM fungal intervention.
The AM fungal treatment and control were directly manipulated by applying AM fungal inoculum while in the other two intervention types, AM fungi were indirectly All Barely Corn Millet Rice Wheat.
P = 0.05 P = 0.81 P = 0.32 P = 0.21 P = 0.34 P = 0.11 1.0 All P = 0.001 Corn P = 0.18 Wheat P = 0.02

### Discussion
The authors present a global-scale meta-analysis investigating the AM fungal effect on grain yield for field studies where AM fungal inoculum was applied with an associated control.
The authors found that AM fungi increased grain yields of major cereal crops: wheat, maize, rice and sorghum.
This is in correspondence with other meta-analyses ([^Lekberg_2005_a]; [^Pellegrino_et+al_2015_a]) focusing on crop yield.
The authors' meta-analysis gives unprecedented evidence for the potential of AM fungi to improve yield production of four of the major staple food crops feeding the world.
The authors included only field data with clearly defined AM fungal inoculation treatments in the detailed analyses, allowing them to make unbiased inferences for the situation that is most agronomically relevant

### Conclusion
Increasing grain yields of food cereal crops is a major goal in future sustainable agriculture.
The authors conducted a meta-analysis for three datasets including both English and Chinese language publications: the ‘whole’ dataset including both laboratory and field studies (168 articles); the ‘field’ dataset comprising only field studies (97 studies); and the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset including only AM fungal inoculation studies conducted in field conditions (70 articles).
AM fungal inoculation in field led to a 16% increase based on the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset; this effect was variable (77% trials had positive values), crop-specific, lower for new cultivars released after 1950 and further modulated by soil pH.
There are neutral and negative effects of AM fungi on grain yields, the authors emphasize the importance of integrating AM fungi in sustainable agriculture to increase grain yields of cereal crops


## Study subjects

### 3 datasets
- We quantitatively analyzed the potential role of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi in enhancing grain yields of seven cereal crops with exceptional importance for human nutrition across the globe: corn, wheat, rice, barley, sorghum, millet and oat. ==We conducted a meta-analysis for three datasets including both English and Chinese language publications: the ‘whole’ dataset including both laboratory and field studies (168 articles); the ‘field’ dataset comprising only field studies (97 studies); and the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset including only AM fungal inoculation studies conducted in field conditions (70 articles)==. We found that the AM fungal effect on grain yield was less pronounced in field and noninoculation studies

### 168 studies
- We found no significant differences in the effect sizes between Chinese and English publications (Table S2) so that we combined all studies to enhance statistical power. ==In total, 168 studies complied with the inclusion criteria and formed the ‘whole’ dataset (Notes S1, S2); 97 studies formed the ‘field’ dataset and 70 studies comprised the ‘fieldinoculation’ dataset (Fig. 1a)==. 

### 1000 edible plant species
- Although there are neutral and negative effects of AM fungi on grain yields, we emphasize the importance of integrating AM fungi in sustainable agriculture to increase grain yields of cereal crops. ==Feeding people depends heavily on c. 100 crop plants ([^Prescottallen_1990_a]) of several thousand edible plant species worldwide (FAO, 1995)==. Among these, cereal crops are of exceptional importance for human nutrition across the globe due to their high content of starch but also fat and protein ([^Sarwar_2013_a])

## Data analysis
- #method/random_effects_model

## Findings
- AM fungal inoculation in field led to a 16% increase (overall effect) based on the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset; this effect was variable (77% trials had positive values), crop-specific, lower for new cultivars released after 1950 and further modulated by soil pH
- We found no significant differences in the effect sizes between Chinese and English publications (Table S2) so that we combined all studies to enhance statistical power
- Considering all 168 studies, we found an overall positive AM fungal effect on grain yield (21% increase, CI = (16–26%), Fig. 2a) in ‘whole’ dataset
- With 77% of all trials having positive rrY values (Fig. S8), the overall positive effect of AM fungal effect on grain yields in this dataset was 0.15 (CI = (0.09 0.19); Fig. 3b), translating to a 16% increase (CI = (9–21%))
- For crop plant, we found significant differences: positive for corn (13% increase, CI = (2.5–25%)), rice (17% increase, CI = (11–23%)), wheat (17% increase, CI = (13–22%)) and sorghum (37% increase, CI = (5.3–81%)), but only neutral for barley (0.94% increase, CI = (À5.2% to 7%), Fig. 3b)
- As inoculation with AM fungal inoculum led to higher increase in AM fungal colonization (29%) than other agriculture practices (20% by shortened fallow and 7% by reduced tillage 7%) ([^Lekberg_2005_a]), the data using inoculation might carry higher likelihood to attribute causality to AM fungal effects, compared with rotation, intercropping or reduced tillage
- We also hypothesized other soil microbes would significantly increase rrY
- AM fungi increased grain yields by 16% based on field studies where AM fungal inoculation was conducted to establish AM treatment

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- Our analysis clearly shows that laboratory data need to be backed up with field trials to estimate true effect sizes, as discussed in [^Ryan_2018_a]</a></a>). In their review, [^Ryan_2018_a]</a></a>) reached the conclusion that AM fungi ==were not worth managing in terms of crop yield, which clearly contrasts with our results==
- Their review mainly focused on manipulating indigenous AM fungi by crop management, such as rotation with mycorrhizal and nonmycorrhizal host (including plant-free fallow as the extreme form); we considered not only rotation and fallow but also two other intervention types: inoculation with AM fungi or not and reduced tillage or not. When only rotation or tillage was considered, ==we arrived at the same conclusion as [^Ryan_2018_a]</a></a>); however, we support the opposite conclusion when only including inoculation studies==
- It is not helpful to ignore these studies when studying effects of AM fungi on crop yield. Considering all these points, ==we feel that our meta-analysis directly invalidates the major conclusion of [^Ryan_2018_a]), namely that it is not worth managing for AM fungi==

## Contributions
- In conclusion, we found 168 studies that quantitatively addressed whether AM fungi enhanced grain yields of cereal crops with exceptional importance for human food and grown worldwide ([^Awika_2011_a]): corn, wheat, rice, barley, sorghum, millet and oat. Our results show that AM fungal effect on grain yield was less pronounced in field and noninoculation studies. AM fungi increased grain yields by 16% based on field studies where AM fungal inoculation was conducted to establish AM treatment. This effect of corn, rice, sorghum and wheat was clearly positive; that of barley was neutral (more data are required to validate these patterns for millet and oat). Additionally, this effect was lower for crops released after 1950 compared with those released before 1900 and also lower in alkaline soils. Other biotic and abiotic factors were not likely to alter this effect and there was no clear evidence showing that this AM fungal effect on grain yield was due to plant nutrient improvement.

## Data and code
- data on oat were not available in the ‘field’ dataset and the ‘field-inoculation’
- Data on oat were not available in the ‘field’ and ‘field-inoculation’ dataset, while data on millet were not available in the ‘field-inoculation’ dataset
- Additional Supporting Information may be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of the article: Notes S1 List of additional articles screened from the reference lists of selected articles
- Additional Supporting Information may be found online in


## References
[^Awika_2011_a]: Awika JM. 2011. Major cereal grains production and use around the world. ACS Symposium 1089: 1–13. [[Awika_MajorCerealGrainsProductionAround_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Awika%2C%20J.M.%20Major%20cereal%20grains%20production%20and%20use%20around%20the%20world%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Awika%2C%20J.M.%20Major%20cereal%20grains%20production%20and%20use%20around%20the%20world%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Awika%2C%20J.M.%20Major%20cereal%20grains%20production%20and%20use%20around%20the%20world%202011)

[^Bago_et+al_2000_a]: Bago B, Pfeffer PE, Shachar-Hill Y. 2000. Carbon metabolism and transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas. Plant Physiology 124: 949–957. [[Bago_et+al_CarbonMetabolismTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bago%2C%20B.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Shachar-Hill%2C%20Y.%20Carbon%20metabolism%20and%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202000)

[^Bilalis_et+al_2012_a]: Bilalis D, Triantafyllidis V, Karkanis A, Efthimiadou A, Kakabouki I. 2012. Effect of tillage system and rimsulfuron application on weed flora, arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) root colonization and yield of maize (Zea mays L.). Notulae Botanicae Horti Agrobotanici Cluj-Napoca 40: 73–79. [[Bilalis_et+al_EffectTillageSystemRimsulfuronApplication_2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bilalis%2C%20D.%20Triantafyllidis%2C%20V.%20Karkanis%2C%20A.%20Efthimiadou%2C%20A.%20Effect%20of%20tillage%20system%20and%20rimsulfuron%20application%20on%20weed%20flora%2C%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20%28AM%29%20root%20colonization%20and%20yield%20of%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29.%20Notulae%20Botanicae%20Horti%20Agrobotanici%20Cluj-Napoca%2040%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bilalis%2C%20D.%20Triantafyllidis%2C%20V.%20Karkanis%2C%20A.%20Efthimiadou%2C%20A.%20Effect%20of%20tillage%20system%20and%20rimsulfuron%20application%20on%20weed%20flora%2C%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20%28AM%29%20root%20colonization%20and%20yield%20of%20maize%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29.%20Notulae%20Botanicae%20Horti%20Agrobotanici%20Cluj-Napoca%2040%202012) 

[^Brennan_1998_a]: Brennan R, Bolland M. 1998. Relationship between pH measured in water and calcium chloride for soils of southwestern Australia. Communications in Soil Science & Plant Analysis 29: 2683–2689. [[Brennan_RelationshipBetweenPhMeasuredWater_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brennan%2C%20R.%20Bolland%2C%20M.%20Relationship%20between%20pH%20measured%20in%20water%20and%20calcium%20chloride%20for%20soils%20of%20southwestern%20Australia%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brennan%2C%20R.%20Bolland%2C%20M.%20Relationship%20between%20pH%20measured%20in%20water%20and%20calcium%20chloride%20for%20soils%20of%20southwestern%20Australia%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brennan%2C%20R.%20Bolland%2C%20M.%20Relationship%20between%20pH%20measured%20in%20water%20and%20calcium%20chloride%20for%20soils%20of%20southwestern%20Australia%201998)

[^Cabral_et+al_2016_a]: Cabral C, Ravnskov S, Tringovska I, Wollenweber B. 2016. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi modify nutrient allocation and composition in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) subjected to heat-stress. Plant and Soil 408: 385–399. [[Cabral_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiModifyNutrient_2016]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cabral%2C%20C.%20Ravnskov%2C%20S.%20Tringovska%2C%20I.%20Wollenweber%2C%20B.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20modify%20nutrient%20allocation%20and%20composition%20in%20wheat%20%28Triticum%20aestivum%20L.%29%20subjected%20to%20heat-stress.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20408%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cabral%2C%20C.%20Ravnskov%2C%20S.%20Tringovska%2C%20I.%20Wollenweber%2C%20B.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20modify%20nutrient%20allocation%20and%20composition%20in%20wheat%20%28Triticum%20aestivum%20L.%29%20subjected%20to%20heat-stress.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20408%202016) 

[^Canty_2017_a]: Canty A, Ripley B. 2017. Boot: bootstrap R (S-plus) functions. R package version 1.3-20. [WWW document] URL: https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/boot/index.html. [[Canty_BootBootstrapRsplusFunctions_2017]] [OA](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/boot/index.html)  

[^Cardarelli_et+al_2010_a]: Cardarelli M, Rouphael Y, Rea E, Colla G. 2010. Mitigation of alkaline stress by arbuscular mycorrhiza in zucchini plants grown under mineral and organic fertilization. Journal of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science 173: 778–787. [[Cardarelli_et+al_MitigationAlkalineStressArbuscularMycorrhiza_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cardarelli%2C%20M.%20Rouphael%2C%20Y.%20Rea%2C%20E.%20Colla%2C%20G.%20Mitigation%20of%20alkaline%20stress%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20zucchini%20plants%20grown%20under%20mineral%20and%20organic%20fertilization%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cardarelli%2C%20M.%20Rouphael%2C%20Y.%20Rea%2C%20E.%20Colla%2C%20G.%20Mitigation%20of%20alkaline%20stress%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20zucchini%20plants%20grown%20under%20mineral%20and%20organic%20fertilization%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cardarelli%2C%20M.%20Rouphael%2C%20Y.%20Rea%2C%20E.%20Colla%2C%20G.%20Mitigation%20of%20alkaline%20stress%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20in%20zucchini%20plants%20grown%20under%20mineral%20and%20organic%20fertilization%202010)

[^Cartmill_et+al_2007_a]: Cartmill AD, Alarcon A, Valdez-Aguilar LA. 2007. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi enhance tolerance of Rosa multiflora cv. Burr to bicarbonate in irrigation water. Journal of Plant Nutrition 30: 1517–1540. [[Cartmill_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiEnhanceTolerance_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20Rosa%20multiflora%20cv.%20Burr%20to%20bicarbonate%20in%20irrigation%20water%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20Rosa%20multiflora%20cv.%20Burr%20to%20bicarbonate%20in%20irrigation%20water%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20Rosa%20multiflora%20cv.%20Burr%20to%20bicarbonate%20in%20irrigation%20water%202007)

[^Cartmill_et+al_2008_a]: Cartmill AD, Valdez-Aguilar LA, Bryan DL, Alarcon A. 2008. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi enhance tolerance of vinca to high alkalinity in irrigation water. Scientia Horticulturae 115: 275–284. [[Cartmill_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiEnhanceTolerance_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Bryan%2C%20D.L.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20vinca%20to%20high%20alkalinity%20in%20irrigation%20water%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Bryan%2C%20D.L.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20vinca%20to%20high%20alkalinity%20in%20irrigation%20water%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cartmill%2C%20A.D.%20Valdez-Aguilar%2C%20L.A.%20Bryan%2C%20D.L.%20Alarcon%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20enhance%20tolerance%20of%20vinca%20to%20high%20alkalinity%20in%20irrigation%20water%202008)

[^Chandrasekaran_et+al_2014_a]: Chandrasekaran M, Boughattas S, Hu S, Oh S-H, Sa T. 2014. A meta-analysis of arbuscular mycorrhizal effects on plants grown under salt stress. Mycorrhiza 24: 611–625. [[Chandrasekaran_et+al_MetaanalysisArbuscularMycorrhizalEffectsPlants_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chandrasekaran%2C%20M.%20Boughattas%2C%20S.%20Hu%2C%20S.%20Oh%2C%20S.-H.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plants%20grown%20under%20salt%20stress%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chandrasekaran%2C%20M.%20Boughattas%2C%20S.%20Hu%2C%20S.%20Oh%2C%20S.-H.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plants%20grown%20under%20salt%20stress%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chandrasekaran%2C%20M.%20Boughattas%2C%20S.%20Hu%2C%20S.%20Oh%2C%20S.-H.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20effects%20on%20plants%20grown%20under%20salt%20stress%202014)

[^Channabasava_et+al_2015_a]: Channabasava A, Lakshman HC, Muthukumar T. 2015. Fly ash mycorrhizoremediation through Paspalum scrobiculatum L., inoculated with Rhizophagus fasciculatus. Comptes Rendus Biologies 338: 29–39. [[Channabasava_et+al_MycorrhizoremediationThroughPaspalumScrobiculatumL_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Channabasava%2C%20A.%20Lakshman%2C%20H.C.%20Muthukumar%2C%20T.%20Fly%20ash%20mycorrhizoremediation%20through%20Paspalum%20scrobiculatum%20L.%2C%20inoculated%20with%20Rhizophagus%20fasciculatus%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Channabasava%2C%20A.%20Lakshman%2C%20H.C.%20Muthukumar%2C%20T.%20Fly%20ash%20mycorrhizoremediation%20through%20Paspalum%20scrobiculatum%20L.%2C%20inoculated%20with%20Rhizophagus%20fasciculatus%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Channabasava%2C%20A.%20Lakshman%2C%20H.C.%20Muthukumar%2C%20T.%20Fly%20ash%20mycorrhizoremediation%20through%20Paspalum%20scrobiculatum%20L.%2C%20inoculated%20with%20Rhizophagus%20fasciculatus%202015)

[^Cooper_et+al_2009_a]: Cooper H, Hedges LV, Valentine JC. 2009. The handbook of research synthesis and meta-analysis. New York, NY, USA: Russell Sage Foundation. [[Cooper_et+al_HandbookResearchSynthesisMetaanalysis_2009]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cooper%2C%20H.%20Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Valentine%2C%20J.C.%20The%20handbook%20of%20research%20synthesis%20and%20meta-analysis%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cooper%2C%20H.%20Hedges%2C%20L.V.%20Valentine%2C%20J.C.%20The%20handbook%20of%20research%20synthesis%20and%20meta-analysis%202009) 

[^Copas_2000_a]: Copas J, Shi JQ. 2000. Meta-analysis, funnel plots and sensitivity analysis. Biostatistics 1: 247–262. [[Copas_MetaanalysisFunnelPlotsSensitivityAnalysis_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Copas%2C%20J.%20Shi%2C%20J.Q.%20Meta-analysis%2C%20funnel%20plots%20and%20sensitivity%20analysis%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Copas%2C%20J.%20Shi%2C%20J.Q.%20Meta-analysis%2C%20funnel%20plots%20and%20sensitivity%20analysis%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Copas%2C%20J.%20Shi%2C%20J.Q.%20Meta-analysis%2C%20funnel%20plots%20and%20sensitivity%20analysis%202000)

[^Davison_1997_a]: Davison AC, Hinkley DV. 1997. Bootstrap methods and their applications. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. [[Davison_BootstrapMethodsTheirApplications_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Davison%2C%20A.C.%20Hinkley%2C%20D.V.%20Bootstrap%20methods%20and%20their%20applications%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Davison%2C%20A.C.%20Hinkley%2C%20D.V.%20Bootstrap%20methods%20and%20their%20applications%201997) 

[^F_1995_a]: FAO. 1995. Staple foods: What do people eat? [WWW document] URL http://www.fao.org/docrep/u8480e/u8480e07.htm [accessed 28 September 2017]. [[F_StapleFoodsWhatPeople_1995]] [OA](http://www.fao.org/docrep/u8480e/u8480e07.htm)  

[^Govindarajulu_et+al_2005_a]: Govindarajulu M, Pfeffer PE, Jin HR, Abubaker J, Douds DD, Allen JW, Bucking H, Lammers PJ, Shachar-Hill Y. 2005. Nitrogen transfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 435: 819–823. [[Govindarajulu_et+al_NitrogenTransferArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Govindarajulu%2C%20M.%20Pfeffer%2C%20P.E.%20Jin%2C%20H.R.%20Abubaker%2C%20J.%20Nitrogen%20transfer%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202005)

[^Grassini_et+al_2013_a]: Grassini P, Eskridge KM, Cassman KG. 2013. Distinguishing between yield advances and yield plateaus in historical crop production trends. Nature Communications 4: 1–14. [[Grassini_et+al_DistinguishingBetweenYieldAdvancesYield_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Grassini%2C%20P.%20Eskridge%2C%20K.M.%20Cassman%2C%20K.G.%20Distinguishing%20between%20yield%20advances%20and%20yield%20plateaus%20in%20historical%20crop%20production%20trends%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grassini%2C%20P.%20Eskridge%2C%20K.M.%20Cassman%2C%20K.G.%20Distinguishing%20between%20yield%20advances%20and%20yield%20plateaus%20in%20historical%20crop%20production%20trends%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Grassini%2C%20P.%20Eskridge%2C%20K.M.%20Cassman%2C%20K.G.%20Distinguishing%20between%20yield%20advances%20and%20yield%20plateaus%20in%20historical%20crop%20production%20trends%202013)

[^Guinto_2016_a]: Guinto DF, Catto W. 2016. Analysis of the relationship between total nitrogen and available nitrogen in non-pastoral topsoils of New Zealand from a large soil test database. In: Currie LD, Singh R, eds. Integrated nutrient and water management for sustainable farming. Albany, New Zealand: Massey University Press, 1–6. [[Guinto_AnalysisRelationshipBetweenTotalNitrogen_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guinto%2C%20D.F.%20Catto%2C%20W.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20relationship%20between%20total%20nitrogen%20and%20available%20nitrogen%20in%20non-pastoral%20topsoils%20of%20New%20Zealand%20from%20a%20large%20soil%20test%20database%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guinto%2C%20D.F.%20Catto%2C%20W.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20relationship%20between%20total%20nitrogen%20and%20available%20nitrogen%20in%20non-pastoral%20topsoils%20of%20New%20Zealand%20from%20a%20large%20soil%20test%20database%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guinto%2C%20D.F.%20Catto%2C%20W.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20relationship%20between%20total%20nitrogen%20and%20available%20nitrogen%20in%20non-pastoral%20topsoils%20of%20New%20Zealand%20from%20a%20large%20soil%20test%20database%202016)

[^Hetrick_et+al_1992_a]: Hetrick B, Wilson G, Cox T. 1992. Mycorrhizal dependence of modern wheat varieties, landraces, and ancestors. Canadian Journal of Botany 70: 2032–2040. [[Hetrick_et+al_MycorrhizalDependenceModernWheatVarieties_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Cox%2C%20T.%20Mycorrhizal%20dependence%20of%20modern%20wheat%20varieties%2C%20landraces%2C%20and%20ancestors%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Cox%2C%20T.%20Mycorrhizal%20dependence%20of%20modern%20wheat%20varieties%2C%20landraces%2C%20and%20ancestors%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Cox%2C%20T.%20Mycorrhizal%20dependence%20of%20modern%20wheat%20varieties%2C%20landraces%2C%20and%20ancestors%201992)

[^Hetrick_et+al_1990_a]: Hetrick B, Wilson G, Todd T. 1990. Differential responses of C3 and C4 grasses to mycorrhizal symbiosis, phosphorus fertilization, and soil microorganisms. Canadian Journal of Botany 68: 461–467. [[Hetrick_et+al_DifferentialResponsesC3C4Grasses_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Todd%2C%20T.%20Differential%20responses%20of%20C3%20and%20C4%20grasses%20to%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%2C%20and%20soil%20microorganisms%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Todd%2C%20T.%20Differential%20responses%20of%20C3%20and%20C4%20grasses%20to%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%2C%20and%20soil%20microorganisms%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hetrick%2C%20B.%20Wilson%2C%20G.%20Todd%2C%20T.%20Differential%20responses%20of%20C3%20and%20C4%20grasses%20to%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%2C%20and%20soil%20microorganisms%201990)

[^Hoeksema_et+al_2010_a]: Hoeksema JD, Chaudhary VB, Gehring CA, Johnson NC, Karst J, Koide RT, Pringle A, Zabinski C, Bever JD, Moore JC et al. 2010. A meta-analysis of context-dependency in plant response to inoculation with mycorrhizal fungi. Ecology Letters 13: 394–407. [[Hoeksema_et+al_MetaanalysisContextdependencyPlantResponseInoculation_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hoeksema%2C%20J.D.%20Chaudhary%2C%20V.B.%20Gehring%2C%20C.A.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20context-dependency%20in%20plant%20response%20to%20inoculation%20with%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoeksema%2C%20J.D.%20Chaudhary%2C%20V.B.%20Gehring%2C%20C.A.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20context-dependency%20in%20plant%20response%20to%20inoculation%20with%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hoeksema%2C%20J.D.%20Chaudhary%2C%20V.B.%20Gehring%2C%20C.A.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20context-dependency%20in%20plant%20response%20to%20inoculation%20with%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010)

[^Jayne_2014_a]: Jayne B, Quigley M. 2014. Influence of arbuscular mycorrhiza on growth and reproductive response of plants under water deficit: a meta-analysis. Mycorrhiza 24: 109–119. [[Jayne_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizaGrowthReproductive_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jayne%2C%20B.%20Quigley%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20on%20growth%20and%20reproductive%20response%20of%20plants%20under%20water%20deficit%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jayne%2C%20B.%20Quigley%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20on%20growth%20and%20reproductive%20response%20of%20plants%20under%20water%20deficit%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jayne%2C%20B.%20Quigley%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20on%20growth%20and%20reproductive%20response%20of%20plants%20under%20water%20deficit%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202014)

[^Jiang_et+al_2017_a]: Jiang Y, Wang W, Xie Q, Liu N, Liu L, Wang D, Zhang X, Yang C, Chen X, Tang D et al. 2017. Plants transfer lipids to sustain colonization by mutualistic mycorrhizal and parasitic fungi. Science 356: 1172. [[Jiang_et+al_PlantsTransferLipidsSustainColonization_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20W.%20Xie%2C%20Q.%20Liu%2C%20N.%20Plants%20transfer%20lipids%20to%20sustain%20colonization%20by%20mutualistic%20mycorrhizal%20and%20parasitic%20fungi%202017)

[^Johnson_et+al_2015_a]: Johnson NC, Wilson GW, Wilson JA, Miller RM, Bowker MA. 2015. Mycorrhizal phenotypes and the Law of the Minimum. New Phytologist 205: 1473–1484. [[Johnson_et+al_MycorrhizalPhenotypesLawMinimum_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Wilson%2C%20G.W.%20Wilson%2C%20J.A.%20Miller%2C%20R.M.%20Mycorrhizal%20phenotypes%20and%20the%20Law%20of%20the%20Minimum%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Wilson%2C%20G.W.%20Wilson%2C%20J.A.%20Miller%2C%20R.M.%20Mycorrhizal%20phenotypes%20and%20the%20Law%20of%20the%20Minimum%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Wilson%2C%20G.W.%20Wilson%2C%20J.A.%20Miller%2C%20R.M.%20Mycorrhizal%20phenotypes%20and%20the%20Law%20of%20the%20Minimum%202015)

[^Kabala_et+al_2016_a]: Kabala C, Musztyfaga E, Galka B, Labunska D, Manczynska P. 2016. Conversion of soil pH 1: 2.5 KCl and 1: 2.5 H2O to 1: 5 H2O: conclusions for soil management, environmental monitoring, and international soil databases. Polish Journal of Environmental Studies 25: 647–653. [[Kabala_et+al_ConversionSoilPh125_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kabala%2C%20C.%20Musztyfaga%2C%20E.%20Galka%2C%20B.%20Labunska%2C%20D.%20Conversion%20of%20soil%20pH%201%3A%202.5%20KCl%20and%201%3A%202.5%20H2O%20to%201%3A%205%20H2O%3A%20conclusions%20for%20soil%20management%2C%20environmental%20monitoring%2C%20and%20international%20soil%20databases%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kabala%2C%20C.%20Musztyfaga%2C%20E.%20Galka%2C%20B.%20Labunska%2C%20D.%20Conversion%20of%20soil%20pH%201%3A%202.5%20KCl%20and%201%3A%202.5%20H2O%20to%201%3A%205%20H2O%3A%20conclusions%20for%20soil%20management%2C%20environmental%20monitoring%2C%20and%20international%20soil%20databases%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kabala%2C%20C.%20Musztyfaga%2C%20E.%20Galka%2C%20B.%20Labunska%2C%20D.%20Conversion%20of%20soil%20pH%201%3A%202.5%20KCl%20and%201%3A%202.5%20H2O%20to%201%3A%205%20H2O%3A%20conclusions%20for%20soil%20management%2C%20environmental%20monitoring%2C%20and%20international%20soil%20databases%202016)

[^Karagiannidis_1998_a]: Karagiannidis N, Hadjisavva-Zinoviadi S. 1998. The mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae enhances growth, yield and chemical composition of a durum wheat variety in 10 different soils. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems 52: 1–7. [[Karagiannidis_MycorrhizalFungusGlomusMosseaeEnhances_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karagiannidis%2C%20N.%20Hadjisavva-Zinoviadi%2C%20S.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%20enhances%20growth%2C%20yield%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20a%20durum%20wheat%20variety%20in%2010%20different%20soils%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karagiannidis%2C%20N.%20Hadjisavva-Zinoviadi%2C%20S.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%20enhances%20growth%2C%20yield%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20a%20durum%20wheat%20variety%20in%2010%20different%20soils%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karagiannidis%2C%20N.%20Hadjisavva-Zinoviadi%2C%20S.%20The%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%20enhances%20growth%2C%20yield%20and%20chemical%20composition%20of%20a%20durum%20wheat%20variety%20in%2010%20different%20soils%201998)

[^Khadge_et+al_1990_a]: Khadge BR, Ilag LL, Mew TW, Jalali BL, Chand H. 1990. Interaction study of Glomus mosseae and Rhizoctonia solani. Trends in mycorrhizal research. Proceedings of the National Conference on Mycorrhiza, held at Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, India, Feb. 14-16, 1990. [WWW document] URL https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221679446. [[Khadge_et+al_InteractionStudyGlomusMosseaeRhizoctonia_1990]] [OA](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221679446)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Khadge%2C%20B.R.%20Ilag%2C%20L.L.%20Mew%2C%20T.W.%20Jalali%2C%20B.L.%20Interaction%20study%20of%20Glomus%20mosseae%20and%20Rhizoctonia%20solani.%20Trends%20in%20mycorrhizal%20research%201990-02)

[^Knapp_2003_a]: Knapp G, Hartung J. 2003. Improved tests for a random effects meta-regression with a single covariate. Statistics in Medicine 22: 2693–2710. [[Knapp_ImprovedTestsRandomEffectsMetaregression_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Knapp%2C%20G.%20Hartung%2C%20J.%20Improved%20tests%20for%20a%20random%20effects%20meta-regression%20with%20a%20single%20covariate%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Knapp%2C%20G.%20Hartung%2C%20J.%20Improved%20tests%20for%20a%20random%20effects%20meta-regression%20with%20a%20single%20covariate%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Knapp%2C%20G.%20Hartung%2C%20J.%20Improved%20tests%20for%20a%20random%20effects%20meta-regression%20with%20a%20single%20covariate%202003)

[^Lajeunesse_2016_a]: Lajeunesse MJ. 2016. Facilitating systematic reviews, data extraction and metaanalysis with the metagear package for R. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 7: 323–330. [[Lajeunesse_FacilitatingSystematicReviewsDataExtraction_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lajeunesse%2C%20M.J.%20Facilitating%20systematic%20reviews%2C%20data%20extraction%20and%20metaanalysis%20with%20the%20metagear%20package%20for%20R%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lajeunesse%2C%20M.J.%20Facilitating%20systematic%20reviews%2C%20data%20extraction%20and%20metaanalysis%20with%20the%20metagear%20package%20for%20R%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lajeunesse%2C%20M.J.%20Facilitating%20systematic%20reviews%2C%20data%20extraction%20and%20metaanalysis%20with%20the%20metagear%20package%20for%20R%202016)

[^Lehmann_et+al_2012_a]: Lehmann A, Barto EK, Powell JR, Rillig MC. 2012. Mycorrhizal responsiveness trends in annual crop plants and their wild relatives – a meta-analysis on studies from 1981 to 2010. Plant and Soil 355: 231–250. [[Lehmann_et+al_MycorrhizalResponsivenessTrendsAnnualCrop_2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%20A%20Barto%20EK%20Powell%20JR%20Rillig%20MC%202012%20Mycorrhizal%20responsiveness%20trends%20in%20annual%20crop%20plants%20and%20their%20wild%20relatives%20%20a%20metaanalysis%20on%20studies%20from%201981%20to%202010%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20355%20231250) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%20A%20Barto%20EK%20Powell%20JR%20Rillig%20MC%202012%20Mycorrhizal%20responsiveness%20trends%20in%20annual%20crop%20plants%20and%20their%20wild%20relatives%20%20a%20metaanalysis%20on%20studies%20from%201981%20to%202010%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20355%20231250) 

[^Lehmann_2015_a]: Lehmann A, Rillig MC. 2015. Arbuscular mycorrhizal contribution to copper, manganese and iron nutrient concentrations in crops – a meta-analysis. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 81: 147–158. [[Lehmann_ArbuscularMycorrhizalContributionCopperManganese_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20copper%2C%20manganese%20and%20iron%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20crops%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20copper%2C%20manganese%20and%20iron%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20crops%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20contribution%20to%20copper%2C%20manganese%20and%20iron%20nutrient%20concentrations%20in%20crops%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202015)

[^Lehmann_et+al_2014_a]: Lehmann A, Veresoglou SD, Leifheit EF, Rillig MC. 2014. Arbuscular mycorrhizal influence on zinc nutrition in crop plants – a meta-analysis. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 69: 123–131. [[Lehmann_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalInfluenceZincNutrition_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Leifheit%2C%20E.F.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Leifheit%2C%20E.F.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Leifheit%2C%20E.F.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20influence%20on%20zinc%20nutrition%20in%20crop%20plants%20%E2%80%93%20a%20meta-analysis%202014)

[^Lehmann_et+al_2017_a]: Lehmann A, Zheng W, Rillig MC. 2017. Soil biota contributions to soil aggregation. Nature Ecology & Evolution 1: 1828–1835. [[Lehmann_et+al_SoilBiotaContributionsSoilAggregation_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Zheng%2C%20W.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Soil%20biota%20contributions%20to%20soil%20aggregation%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Zheng%2C%20W.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Soil%20biota%20contributions%20to%20soil%20aggregation%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Zheng%2C%20W.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Soil%20biota%20contributions%20to%20soil%20aggregation%202017)

[^Lekberg_2005_a]: Lekberg Y, Koide RT. 2005. Is plant performance limited by abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi? A meta-analysis of studies published between 1988 and 2003. New Phytologist 168: 189–204. [[Lekberg_PlantPerformanceLimitedAbundanceArbuscular_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lekberg%20Y%20Koide%20RT%202005%20Is%20plant%20performance%20limited%20by%20abundance%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20studies%20published%20between%201988%20and%202003%20New%20Phytologist%20168%20189204) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lekberg%20Y%20Koide%20RT%202005%20Is%20plant%20performance%20limited%20by%20abundance%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20studies%20published%20between%201988%20and%202003%20New%20Phytologist%20168%20189204) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lekberg%20Y%20Koide%20RT%202005%20Is%20plant%20performance%20limited%20by%20abundance%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20studies%20published%20between%201988%20and%202003%20New%20Phytologist%20168%20189204)

[^Liu_et+al_2015_a]: Liu YJ, Johnson NC, Mao L, Shi GX, Jiang SJ, Ma XJ, Du GZ, An LZ, Feng HY. 2015. Phylogenetic structure of arbuscular mycorrhizal community shifts in response to increasing soil fertility. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 89: 196–205. [[Liu_et+al_PhylogeneticStructureArbuscularMycorrhizalCommunity_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liu%2C%20Y.J.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Mao%2C%20L.%20Shi%2C%20G.X.%20Phylogenetic%20structure%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20community%20shifts%20in%20response%20to%20increasing%20soil%20fertility%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20Y.J.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Mao%2C%20L.%20Shi%2C%20G.X.%20Phylogenetic%20structure%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20community%20shifts%20in%20response%20to%20increasing%20soil%20fertility%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liu%2C%20Y.J.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Mao%2C%20L.%20Shi%2C%20G.X.%20Phylogenetic%20structure%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20community%20shifts%20in%20response%20to%20increasing%20soil%20fertility%202015)

[^Marschner_1994_a]: Marschner H, Dell B. 1994. Nutrient uptake in mycorrhizal symbiosis. Plant and Soil 159: 89–102. [[Marschner_NutrientUptakeMycorrhizalSymbiosisPlant_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Nutrient%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20159%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marschner%2C%20H.%20Dell%2C%20B.%20Nutrient%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20159%201994) 

[^Martın-Robles_et+al_2018_a]: Martın-Robles N, Lehmann A, Seco E, Alonso JM, Aroca R, Rillig MC, Milla R. 2018. Impacts of domestication on the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis of 27 crop species. New Phytologist 218: 322–334. [[Martın-Robles_et+al_ImpactsDomesticationArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mart%C4%B1n-Robles%2C%20N.%20Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Seco%2C%20E.%20Alonso%2C%20J.M.%20Impacts%20of%20domestication%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20of%2027%20crop%20species%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mart%C4%B1n-Robles%2C%20N.%20Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Seco%2C%20E.%20Alonso%2C%20J.M.%20Impacts%20of%20domestication%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20of%2027%20crop%20species%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mart%C4%B1n-Robles%2C%20N.%20Lehmann%2C%20A.%20Seco%2C%20E.%20Alonso%2C%20J.M.%20Impacts%20of%20domestication%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20of%2027%20crop%20species%202018)

[^Meng_et+al_2001_a]: Meng L, Jordan NR, Koide RT, Yannarell AC, Davis AS. 2001. Meta-analysis of crop and weed growth responses to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: implications for integrated weed management. Weed Science 64: 642–652. [[Meng_et+al_MetaanalysisCropWeedGrowthResponses_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Meng%2C%20L.%20Jordan%2C%20N.R.%20Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Yannarell%2C%20A.C.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20crop%20and%20weed%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20implications%20for%20integrated%20weed%20management%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Meng%2C%20L.%20Jordan%2C%20N.R.%20Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Yannarell%2C%20A.C.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20crop%20and%20weed%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20implications%20for%20integrated%20weed%20management%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Meng%2C%20L.%20Jordan%2C%20N.R.%20Koide%2C%20R.T.%20Yannarell%2C%20A.C.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20crop%20and%20weed%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20implications%20for%20integrated%20weed%20management%202001)

[^Moher_2009_a]: Moher D. 2009. Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and metaanalyses: the PRISMA statement. Annals of Internal Medicine 151: 264. [[Moher_PreferredReportingItemsSystematicReviews_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moher%2C%20D.%20Preferred%20reporting%20items%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20and%20metaanalyses%3A%20the%20PRISMA%20statement%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moher%2C%20D.%20Preferred%20reporting%20items%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20and%20metaanalyses%3A%20the%20PRISMA%20statement%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moher%2C%20D.%20Preferred%20reporting%20items%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20and%20metaanalyses%3A%20the%20PRISMA%20statement%202009)

[^Parniske_2008_a]: Parniske M. 2008. Arbuscular mycorrhiza: the mother of plant root endosymbioses. Nature Reviews Microbiology 6: 763–775. [[Parniske_ArbuscularMycorrhizaMotherPlantRoot_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parniske%2C%20M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20the%20mother%20of%20plant%20root%20endosymbioses%202008)

[^Pellegrino_et+al_2015_a]: Pellegrino E, Opik M, Bonari E, Ercoli L. 2015. Responses of wheat to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: a meta-analysis of field studies from 1975 to 2013. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 84: 210–217. [[Pellegrino_et+al_ResponsesWheatArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pellegrino%20E%20Opik%20M%20Bonari%20E%20Ercoli%20L%202015%20Responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20a%20metaanalysis%20of%20field%20studies%20from%201975%20to%202013%20Soil%20Biology%20%20Biochemistry%2084%20210217) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pellegrino%20E%20Opik%20M%20Bonari%20E%20Ercoli%20L%202015%20Responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20a%20metaanalysis%20of%20field%20studies%20from%201975%20to%202013%20Soil%20Biology%20%20Biochemistry%2084%20210217) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pellegrino%20E%20Opik%20M%20Bonari%20E%20Ercoli%20L%202015%20Responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20a%20metaanalysis%20of%20field%20studies%20from%201975%20to%202013%20Soil%20Biology%20%20Biochemistry%2084%20210217)

[^Perie_2008_a]: Perie C, Ouimet R. 2008. Organic carbon, organic matter and bulk density relationships in boreal forest soils. Canadian Journal of Soil Science 88: 315– 325. [[Perie_OrganicCarbonOrganicMatterBulk_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Perie%2C%20C.%20Ouimet%2C%20R.%20Organic%20carbon%2C%20organic%20matter%20and%20bulk%20density%20relationships%20in%20boreal%20forest%20soils%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Perie%2C%20C.%20Ouimet%2C%20R.%20Organic%20carbon%2C%20organic%20matter%20and%20bulk%20density%20relationships%20in%20boreal%20forest%20soils%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Perie%2C%20C.%20Ouimet%2C%20R.%20Organic%20carbon%2C%20organic%20matter%20and%20bulk%20density%20relationships%20in%20boreal%20forest%20soils%202008)

[^Powell_et+al_2009_a]: Powell JR, Parrent JL, Hart MM, Klironomos JN, Rillig MC, Maherali H. 2009. Phylogenetic trait conservatism and the evolution of functional trade-offs in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Proceedings Biological Sciences 276: 4237– 4245. [[Powell_et+al_PhylogeneticTraitConservatismEvolutionFunctional_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Powell%2C%20JR%2C%20Parrent%20JL%2C%20Hart%20MM%2C%20Klironomos%20JN%2C%20Rillig%20Phylogenetic%20trait%20conservatism%20and%20the%20evolution%20of%20functional%20trade-offs%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Powell%2C%20JR%2C%20Parrent%20JL%2C%20Hart%20MM%2C%20Klironomos%20JN%2C%20Rillig%20Phylogenetic%20trait%20conservatism%20and%20the%20evolution%20of%20functional%20trade-offs%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Powell%2C%20JR%2C%20Parrent%20JL%2C%20Hart%20MM%2C%20Klironomos%20JN%2C%20Rillig%20Phylogenetic%20trait%20conservatism%20and%20the%20evolution%20of%20functional%20trade-offs%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202009)

[^Prescottallen_1990_a]: Prescottallen R, Prescottallen C. 1990. How many plants feed the world? Conservation Biology 4: 365–374. [[Prescottallen_ManyPlantsFeedWorld_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Prescottallen%2C%20R.%20Prescottallen%2C%20C.%20How%20many%20plants%20feed%20the%20world%3F%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Prescottallen%2C%20R.%20Prescottallen%2C%20C.%20How%20many%20plants%20feed%20the%20world%3F%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Prescottallen%2C%20R.%20Prescottallen%2C%20C.%20How%20many%20plants%20feed%20the%20world%3F%201990)

[^Provin_et+al_2008_a]: Provin T, Wright A, Hons F, Zuberer D, White R. 2008. Seasonal dynamics of soil micronutrients in compost-amended bermudagrass turf. Bioresource Technology 99: 2672–2679. [[Provin_et+al_SeasonalDynamicsSoilMicronutrientsCompostamended_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Provin%2C%20T.%20Wright%2C%20A.%20Hons%2C%20F.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Seasonal%20dynamics%20of%20soil%20micronutrients%20in%20compost-amended%20bermudagrass%20turf%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Provin%2C%20T.%20Wright%2C%20A.%20Hons%2C%20F.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Seasonal%20dynamics%20of%20soil%20micronutrients%20in%20compost-amended%20bermudagrass%20turf%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Provin%2C%20T.%20Wright%2C%20A.%20Hons%2C%20F.%20Zuberer%2C%20D.%20Seasonal%20dynamics%20of%20soil%20micronutrients%20in%20compost-amended%20bermudagrass%20turf%202008)

[^R_2017_a]: R Core Team 2017. R (version 3.4.2): a language and environment for statistical computing. Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for Statistical Computing. [WWW document] URL https://www.R-project.org/. [[R_version342LanguageEnvironmentStatistical_2017]] [OA](https://www.R-project.org/)  [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=2017%2C%20R%20Core%20Team%20R%20%28version%203.4.2%29%3A%20a%20language%20and%20environment%20for%20statistical%20computing%202017)

[^Rayment_2013_a]: Rayment G. 2013. Total potassium to exchangeable potassium ratios as a guide to sustainable soil potassium supply. Communications in Soil Science and Plant Analysis 44: 113–119. [[Rayment_TotalPotassiumExchangeablePotassiumRatios_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rayment%2C%20G.%20Total%20potassium%20to%20exchangeable%20potassium%20ratios%20as%20a%20guide%20to%20sustainable%20soil%20potassium%20supply%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rayment%2C%20G.%20Total%20potassium%20to%20exchangeable%20potassium%20ratios%20as%20a%20guide%20to%20sustainable%20soil%20potassium%20supply%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rayment%2C%20G.%20Total%20potassium%20to%20exchangeable%20potassium%20ratios%20as%20a%20guide%20to%20sustainable%20soil%20potassium%20supply%202013)

[^Rillig_et+al_2016_a]: Rillig MC, Sosa-Hernandez MA, Roy J, Aguilar-Trigueros CA, Valyi K, Lehmann A. 2016. Towards an integrated mycorrhizal technology: harnessing mycorrhiza for sustainable intensification in agriculture. Frontiers in Plant Science 7: 1–5. [[Rillig_et+al_TowardsIntegratedMycorrhizalTechnologyHarnessing_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Sosa-Hernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Roy%2C%20J.%20Aguilar-Trigueros%2C%20C.A.%20Towards%20an%20integrated%20mycorrhizal%20technology%3A%20harnessing%20mycorrhiza%20for%20sustainable%20intensification%20in%20agriculture%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Sosa-Hernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Roy%2C%20J.%20Aguilar-Trigueros%2C%20C.A.%20Towards%20an%20integrated%20mycorrhizal%20technology%3A%20harnessing%20mycorrhiza%20for%20sustainable%20intensification%20in%20agriculture%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Sosa-Hernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Roy%2C%20J.%20Aguilar-Trigueros%2C%20C.A.%20Towards%20an%20integrated%20mycorrhizal%20technology%3A%20harnessing%20mycorrhiza%20for%20sustainable%20intensification%20in%20agriculture%202016)

[^Ryan_2018_a]: Ryan MH, Graham JH. 2018. Little evidence that farmers should consider abundance or diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi when managing crops. New Phytologist 220: 1092–1107. [[Ryan_LittleEvidenceThatFarmersShould_2018]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Little%20evidence%20that%20farmers%20should%20consider%20abundance%20or%20diversity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20when%20managing%20crops%202018) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Little%20evidence%20that%20farmers%20should%20consider%20abundance%20or%20diversity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20when%20managing%20crops%202018) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Little%20evidence%20that%20farmers%20should%20consider%20abundance%20or%20diversity%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20when%20managing%20crops%202018)

[^Ryan_et+al_2008_a]: Ryan MH, McInerney JK, Record IR, Angus JF. 2008. Zinc bioavailability in wheat grain in relation to phosphorus fertiliser, crop sequence and mycorrhizal fungi. Journal of the Science of Food and Agriculture 88: 1208–1216. [[Ryan_et+al_ZincBioavailabilityWheatGrainRelation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20McInerney%2C%20J.K.%20Record%2C%20I.R.%20Angus%2C%20J.F.%20Zinc%20bioavailability%20in%20wheat%20grain%20in%20relation%20to%20phosphorus%20fertiliser%2C%20crop%20sequence%20and%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20McInerney%2C%20J.K.%20Record%2C%20I.R.%20Angus%2C%20J.F.%20Zinc%20bioavailability%20in%20wheat%20grain%20in%20relation%20to%20phosphorus%20fertiliser%2C%20crop%20sequence%20and%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ryan%2C%20M.H.%20McInerney%2C%20J.K.%20Record%2C%20I.R.%20Angus%2C%20J.F.%20Zinc%20bioavailability%20in%20wheat%20grain%20in%20relation%20to%20phosphorus%20fertiliser%2C%20crop%20sequence%20and%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008)

[^Sarwar_2013_a]: Sarwar H. 2013. The importance of cereals (Poaceae: Gramineae) nutrition in human health: a review. Journal of Cereals & Oilseeds 4: 32–35. [[Sarwar_ImportanceCerealspoaceaeGramineaeNutrition_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sarwar%2C%20H.%20The%20importance%20of%20cereals%20%28Poaceae%3A%20Gramineae%29%20nutrition%20in%20human%20health%3A%20a%20review%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sarwar%2C%20H.%20The%20importance%20of%20cereals%20%28Poaceae%3A%20Gramineae%29%20nutrition%20in%20human%20health%3A%20a%20review%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sarwar%2C%20H.%20The%20importance%20of%20cereals%20%28Poaceae%3A%20Gramineae%29%20nutrition%20in%20human%20health%3A%20a%20review%202013)

[^Sawers_et+al_2008_a]: Sawers RJ, Gutjahr C, Paszkowski U. 2008. Cereal mycorrhiza: an ancient symbiosis in modern agriculture. Trends in Plant Science 13: 93–97. [[Sawers_et+al_CerealMycorrhizaAncientSymbiosisModern_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sawers%2C%20R.J.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Cereal%20mycorrhiza%3A%20an%20ancient%20symbiosis%20in%20modern%20agriculture%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sawers%2C%20R.J.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Cereal%20mycorrhiza%3A%20an%20ancient%20symbiosis%20in%20modern%20agriculture%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sawers%2C%20R.J.%20Gutjahr%2C%20C.%20Paszkowski%2C%20U.%20Cereal%20mycorrhiza%3A%20an%20ancient%20symbiosis%20in%20modern%20agriculture%202008)

[^Shuster_2011_a]: Shuster JJ. 2011. Review: Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews for interventions. Research Synthesis Methods 2: 126–130. [[Shuster_ReviewCochraneHandbookSystematicReviews_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shuster%2C%20J.J.%20Review%3A%20Cochrane%20handbook%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20for%20interventions%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shuster%2C%20J.J.%20Review%3A%20Cochrane%20handbook%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20for%20interventions%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shuster%2C%20J.J.%20Review%3A%20Cochrane%20handbook%20for%20systematic%20reviews%20for%20interventions%202011)

[^Smith_2008_a]: Smith SE, Read DJ. 2008. Mycorrhizal symbiosis. San Diego, CA, USA: Academic Press. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) 

[^Smith_2011_a]: Smith FA, Smith SE. 2011. What is the significance of the arbuscular mycorrhizal colonisation of many economically important crop plants? Plant and Soil 348: 63–79. [[Smith_WhatSignificanceArbuscularMycorrhizalColonisation_2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20What%20is%20the%20significance%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonisation%20of%20many%20economically%20important%20crop%20plants%3F%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20348%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20F.A.%20Smith%2C%20S.E.%20What%20is%20the%20significance%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonisation%20of%20many%20economically%20important%20crop%20plants%3F%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20348%202011) 

[^Sterne_2001_a]: Sterne JAC, Egger M. 2001. Funnel plots for detecting bias in meta-analysis: guidelines on choice of axis. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 54: 1046–1055. [[Sterne_FunnelPlotsDetectingBiasMetaanalysis_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sterne%2C%20J.A.C.%20Egger%2C%20M.%20Funnel%20plots%20for%20detecting%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20guidelines%20on%20choice%20of%20axis%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sterne%2C%20J.A.C.%20Egger%2C%20M.%20Funnel%20plots%20for%20detecting%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20guidelines%20on%20choice%20of%20axis%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sterne%2C%20J.A.C.%20Egger%2C%20M.%20Funnel%20plots%20for%20detecting%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20guidelines%20on%20choice%20of%20axis%202001)

[^Stevens_2009_a]: Stevens JR, Taylor AM. 2009. Hierarchical dependence in meta-analysis. Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics 34: 46–73. [[Stevens_HierarchicalDependenceMetaanalysis_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Stevens%2C%20JR%2C%20Taylor%20A.M.%20Hierarchical%20dependence%20in%20meta-analysis%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stevens%2C%20JR%2C%20Taylor%20A.M.%20Hierarchical%20dependence%20in%20meta-analysis%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Stevens%2C%20JR%2C%20Taylor%20A.M.%20Hierarchical%20dependence%20in%20meta-analysis%202009)

[^Thirkell_et+al_2017_a]: Thirkell TJ, Charters MD, Elliott AJ, Sait SM, Field KJ. 2017. Are mycorrhizal fungi our sustainable saviours? Considerations for achieving food security. Journal of Ecology 105: 921–929. [[Thirkell_et+al_MycorrhizalFungiSustainableSavioursConsiderations_2017]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Charters%2C%20M.D.%20Elliott%2C%20A.J.%20Sait%2C%20S.M.%20Are%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20our%20sustainable%20saviours%3F%20Considerations%20for%20achieving%20food%20security%202017) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Charters%2C%20M.D.%20Elliott%2C%20A.J.%20Sait%2C%20S.M.%20Are%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20our%20sustainable%20saviours%3F%20Considerations%20for%20achieving%20food%20security%202017) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thirkell%2C%20T.J.%20Charters%2C%20M.D.%20Elliott%2C%20A.J.%20Sait%2C%20S.M.%20Are%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20our%20sustainable%20saviours%3F%20Considerations%20for%20achieving%20food%20security%202017)

[^Veiga_et+al_2011_a]: Veiga RSL, Jansa J, Frossard E, van der Heijden MGA. 2011. Can arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi reduce the growth of agricultural weeds? PLoS ONE 6: e27825. [[Veiga_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiReduceGrowth_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Veiga%2C%20R.S.L.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Can%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20growth%20of%20agricultural%20weeds%3F%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veiga%2C%20R.S.L.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Can%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20growth%20of%20agricultural%20weeds%3F%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Veiga%2C%20R.S.L.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20van%20der%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Can%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20growth%20of%20agricultural%20weeds%3F%202011)

[^Veresoglou_2012_a]: Veresoglou SD, Rillig MC. 2012. Suppression of fungal and nematode plant pathogens through arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Biology Letters 8: 214–217. [[Veresoglou_SuppressionFungalNematodePlantPathogens_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Suppression%20of%20fungal%20and%20nematode%20plant%20pathogens%20through%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Suppression%20of%20fungal%20and%20nematode%20plant%20pathogens%20through%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Suppression%20of%20fungal%20and%20nematode%20plant%20pathogens%20through%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202012)

[^Viechtbauer_2010_a]: Viechtbauer W. 2010. Conducting meta-analyses in R with the metafor package. Journal of Statistical Software 36: 1–48. [[Viechtbauer_ConductingMetaanalysesRWithMetafor_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Viechtbauer%2C%20W.%20Conducting%20meta-analyses%20in%20R%20with%20the%20metafor%20package%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Viechtbauer%2C%20W.%20Conducting%20meta-analyses%20in%20R%20with%20the%20metafor%20package%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Viechtbauer%2C%20W.%20Conducting%20meta-analyses%20in%20R%20with%20the%20metafor%20package%202010)

[^Werner_2015_a]: Werner GDA, Kiers ET. 2015. Partner selection in the mycorrhizal mutualism. New Phytologist 205: 1437–1442. [[Werner_PartnerSelectionMycorrhizalMutualism_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Werner%2C%20G.D.A.%20Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Partner%20selection%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Werner%2C%20G.D.A.%20Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Partner%20selection%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Werner%2C%20G.D.A.%20Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Partner%20selection%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202015)

[^Yang_et+al_2014_a]: Yang H, Dai Y, Wang X, Zhang Q, Zhu L, Bian X. 2014. Meta-analysis of interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and biotic stressors of plants. Scientific World Journal 2014: 746506. [[Yang_et+al_MetaanalysisInteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizal_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yang%2C%20H.%20Dai%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20biotic%20stressors%20of%20plants%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20H.%20Dai%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20biotic%20stressors%20of%20plants%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yang%2C%20H.%20Dai%2C%20Y.%20Wang%2C%20X.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Meta-analysis%20of%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20biotic%20stressors%20of%20plants%202014)

[^Yang_et+al_2015_a]: Yang HS, Zhang Q, Dai YJ, Liu Q, Tang JJ, Bian XM, Chen X. 2015. Effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on plant growth depend on root system: a metaanalysis. Plant and Soil 389: 361–374. [[Yang_et+al_EffectsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiPlant_2015]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20H.S.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Dai%2C%20Y.J.%20Liu%2C%20Q.%20Effects%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20on%20plant%20growth%20depend%20on%20root%20system%3A%20a%20metaanalysis.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20389%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yang%2C%20H.S.%20Zhang%2C%20Q.%20Dai%2C%20Y.J.%20Liu%2C%20Q.%20Effects%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20on%20plant%20growth%20depend%20on%20root%20system%3A%20a%20metaanalysis.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20389%202015) 

[^Zhang_et+al_2016_a]: Zhang L, Xu M, Liu Y, Zhang F, Hodge A, Feng G. 2016. Carbon and phosphorus exchange may enable cooperation between an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and a phosphate-solubilizing bacterium. New Phytologist 210: 1022–1032. [[Zhang_et+al_CarbonPhosphorusExchangeEnableCooperation_2016]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Xu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20exchange%20may%20enable%20cooperation%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacterium%202016) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Xu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20exchange%20may%20enable%20cooperation%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacterium%202016) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Xu%2C%20M.%20Liu%2C%20Y.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Carbon%20and%20phosphorus%20exchange%20may%20enable%20cooperation%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacterium%202016)

[^Zhang_et+al_2014_a]: Zhang S, Wang L, Ma F, Bloomfield KJ, Yang J, Atkin OK. 2014. Is resource allocation and grain yield of rice altered by inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi? Journal of Plant Ecology 8: 436–448. [[Zhang_et+al_ResourceAllocationGrainYieldRice_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20S.%20Wang%2C%20L.%20Ma%2C%20F.%20Bloomfield%2C%20K.J.%20Is%20resource%20allocation%20and%20grain%20yield%20of%20rice%20altered%20by%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3F%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20S.%20Wang%2C%20L.%20Ma%2C%20F.%20Bloomfield%2C%20K.J.%20Is%20resource%20allocation%20and%20grain%20yield%20of%20rice%20altered%20by%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3F%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20S.%20Wang%2C%20L.%20Ma%2C%20F.%20Bloomfield%2C%20K.J.%20Is%20resource%20allocation%20and%20grain%20yield%20of%20rice%20altered%20by%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3F%202014)

[^Additional_2009_a]: Additional Supporting Information may be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of the article: Fig. S1 PRISMA 2009 Flow diagram. [[Additional_AdditionalSupportingInformationFoundOnline_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Additional%20Supporting%20Information%20may%20be%20found%20online%20in%20the%20Supporting%20Information%20section%20at%20the%20end%20of%20the%20article%20Fig%20S1%20PRISMA%202009%20Flow%20diagram) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Additional%20Supporting%20Information%20may%20be%20found%20online%20in%20the%20Supporting%20Information%20section%20at%20the%20end%20of%20the%20article%20Fig%20S1%20PRISMA%202009%20Flow%20diagram) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Additional%20Supporting%20Information%20may%20be%20found%20online%20in%20the%20Supporting%20Information%20section%20at%20the%20end%20of%20the%20article%20Fig%20S1%20PRISMA%202009%20Flow%20diagram)

