[[Zhang_et+al_CarbonPhosphorusExchangeEnableCooperation_2016]]

# [Carbon and phosphorus exchange may enable cooperation between an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and a phosphate‐solubilizing bacterium](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/nph.13838)

## [[Lin Zhang]]; [[Minggang Xu]]; [[Yu Liu]] et al.

### 2016

## Abstract
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) transfer plant photosynthate underground which can stimulate soil microbial growth. ==In this study, we examined whether there was a potential link between carbon (C) release from an AMF and phosphorus (P) availability via a phosphatesolubilizing bacterium (PSB)==.  ==We investigated the outcome of the interaction between the AMF and the PSB by conducting a microcosm and two Petri plate experiments==. An in vitro culture experiment was also conducted to determine the direct impact of AMF hyphal exudates on growth of the PSB.  The AMF released substantial C to the environment, triggering PSB growth and activity. In return, the PSB enhanced mineralization of organic P, increasing P availability for the AMF. When soil available P was low, the PSB competed with the AMF for P, and its activity was not stimulated by the fungus. When additional P was added to increase soil available P, the PSB enhanced AMF hyphal growth, and PSB activity was also stimulated by the fungus.  ==Our results suggest that an AMF and a free-living PSB interacted to the benefit of each other by providing the C or P that the other microorganism required, but these interactions depended upon background P availability==.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhiza; #finding/bacteria; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #cooperation; #result/optical_densities; #symbiosis; #finding/bacterium; #method/rhizophagus_irregularis; #method/glomus; #claim/trehalose; #organic_material

## Quote
> Future work is required to clarify the exact mechanisms that operate between arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi and phosphatesolubilizing bacterium, but our results clearly suggest a key role for compounds released from the AMF hyphae


## Key points
- Cooperation is a prevalent phenomenon in nature and occurs at a wide range of scales, from cooperation among genes in genomes to cooperation among nation states ([^Dorsky_et+al_2003_a]; [^Nowak_2006_a])
- We focus on the potential mechanisms behind the synergy that exists between arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) fungi (AMF) and phosphatesolubilizing bacterium (PSB) by investigating the interactions of the two organisms directly
- Experiment 1 was conducted to determine how differing P concentrations influenced the AMF and/or PSB strain under realistic conditions, and to investigate the resulting impact in terms of P acquisition for the host plant
- We found sugars and carboxylates which were released by the Rhizophagus irregularis DAOM 197198 (RIr) hyphae, succinate was only detected at the higher P concentration (Fig. 5)
- Future work is required to clarify the exact mechanisms that operate between AMF and PSB, but our results clearly suggest a key role for compounds released from the AMF hyphae
- The hyphal exudate collected under 35 lM KH2PO4 promoted bacterial growth more effectively than under 0 lM KH2PO4 (Fig. 6). These results suggest that AMF could enhance the activity of PSB, which successfully increased P availability and benefited fungal growth

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Cooperation is a prevalent phenomenon in nature and occurs at a wide range of scales, from cooperation among genes in genomes to cooperation among nation states ([^Dorsky_et+al_2003_a]; [^Nowak_2006_a]).
Much empirical and theoretical effort has been made to find a solution to this problem through the investigation of a wide range of organisms at both the same species and symbiosis scales ([^Keller_1999_a]; [^Griffin_et+al_2004_a]; [^Douglas_2008_a])
It is perhaps surprising, that the selection forces maintaining cooperation in the arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) association, a 450-million-yr-old symbiosis formed between AM fungi (AMF) and plant roots ([^Smith_2008_a]</a>), have only fairly recently been proposed ([^Bever_et+al_2009_a]</a>; [^Kiers_et+al_2011_a]</a></a>), they are not, as yet, fully resolved.
These reciprocal rewards can stabilize cooperation by punishing selfish behaviors ([^Kiers_et+al_2011_a]</a></a>; but see [^Walder_et+al_2012_a]</a>)

### Methods
Experiment 1 was conducted to determine how differing P concentrations influenced the AMF and/or PSB strain under realistic conditions, and to investigate the resulting impact in terms of P acquisition for the host plant.
Experiment 2 (Petri plate experiment 1) was conducted to quantify acid and alkaline phosphatase activities and bacterial number of PSB influenced by AMF under aseptic conditions.
The expression of the AMF hyphal phosphate transporter gene (GiPT ) was quantified.
Experiment 3 (Petri plate experiment 2) was conducted to enable collection of AMF hyphal exudates under two contrasting P concentrations.
Experiment 4 was conducted to determine whether AMF hyphal exudates influenced growth of the PSB.
S1 Materials and methods of the microcosm experiment and Petri plate experiment 3.
Any queries should be directed to the New Phytologist Central Office

### Results
The shoot P content of M. sativa was increased 20–30 times as a result of the presence of the AMF RIn (RIn, P < 0.001; see Table S1); by contrast, the main effect of the bacterium RA on shoot P content was not significant (RA, P = 0.066; Fig. 1a).
In the AMF hyphal soil, the presence of RA significantly increased MBP (RA, P < 0.001), whereas RIn had no effect (RIn, P = 0.945).
Compared with the RA treatment alone, dual inoculation with both RIn and RA increased MBP when KH2PO4 was not added, but decreased MBP when KH2PO4 was added (KH2PO4 9 RIn 9 RA, P = 0.021; Fig. 1b).

### Discussion
Similar to roots ([^Hodge_1998_a]; Hodge et al, 1998), AMF hyphae release C-rich compounds ([^Toljander_et+al_2007_a]</a></a>; [^Bharadwaj_et+al_2012_a]</a>) into the soil which can stimulate microbial growth and function ([^Filion_et+al_1999_a]</a></a>; [^Leigh_et+al_2011_a]; [^Zhang_et+al_2014_b]).
Hyphal exudates are generally reported as mainly comprising sugars, carboxylates and amino acids ([^Toljander_et+al_2007_a]</a></a>; [^Bharadwaj_et+al_2012_a]</a>).
The authors found sugars and carboxylates which were released by the RIr hyphae, succinate was only detected at the higher P concentration (Fig. 5).
As the authors did not quantify the fungal exudates released in this study, further research is required on how both quantitative and qualitative differences in AMF exudates impact upon PSB growth

### Conclusion
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) transfer plant photosynthate underground which can stimulate soil microbial growth.
The authors investigated the outcome of the interaction between the AMF and the PSB by conducting a microcosm and two Petri plate experiments.
An in vitro culture experiment was conducted to determine the direct impact of AMF hyphal exudates on growth of the PSB.
The AMF released substantial C to the environment, triggering PSB growth and activity.
The PSB enhanced mineralization of organic P, increasing P availability for the AMF.
When soil available P was low, the PSB competed with the AMF for P, and its activity was not stimulated by the fungus.
When additional P was added to increase soil available P, the PSB enhanced AMF hyphal growth, and PSB activity was stimulated by the fungus

## Data analysis
- #method/three_way_analysis_of_variance
- #method/levenes_test
- #method/kolmogorov_smirnov_test
- #method/tukeys
- #method/t_test

## Findings
- The shoot P content of M. sativa was increased 20–30 times as a result of the presence of the AMF RIn (RIn, P < 0.001; see Table S1); by contrast, the main effect of the bacterium RA on shoot P content was not significant (RA, P = 0.066; Fig. 1a)
- There was, however, a significant three-way interaction among RIn, RA and inorganic P concentration added (KH2PO4 9 RIn 9 RA, P = 0.021) because the presence of both RIn and RA increased shoot P content only when 5 mg P kgÀ1 as KH2PO4 was also added (Fig. 1a)
- In the AMF hyphal soil, the presence of RA significantly increased MBP (RA, P < 0.001), whereas RIn had no effect (RIn, P = 0.945)
- Compared with the RA treatment alone, dual inoculation with both RIn and RA increased MBP when KH2PO4 was not added, but decreased MBP when KH2PO4 was added (KH2PO4 9 RIn 9 RA, P = 0.021; Fig. 1b)
- RIn and RA, either singly or together, decreased soil phytate P significantly at both KH2PO4 concentrations (RA, P < 0.001; RIn, P = 0.008)
- Subsequent analyses showed that phytate P (i.e. that remaining from the original 75 mg P kgÀ1 soil Na-phytate after extraction with 0.5 M NaHCO3) was significantly correlated with acid phosphatase activity (R2 = 0.699 and P = 0.01; Fig. 2a), and MBP was (a)
- 2 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 Acid phosphatase activity (μg p-NPP min–1 g–1 soil) significantly correlated with soil phytate P (R2 = 0.576 and P = 0.029; Fig. 2b)
- In the +RIn treatment, there was a significant interaction between KH2PO4 and RA (KH2PO4 9 RA, P = 0.032) because AMF hyphal lengths were stimulated by the presence of RA when KH2PO4 was also added but not affected by RA when KH2PO4 was absent (Fig. 3a; Table S1)
- Dual inoculation with RIr and RA increased acid and alkaline phosphatase activity compared with RA inoculation alone (RIr 9 RA, P < 0.001)
- Harvest time-point also had a significant effect on acid (P = 0.001) and alkaline phosphatase activity (P < 0.001), with activities in the RA and RIr/RA treatments higher at 4 than 2 wk (Fig. S5c,d)
- The growth of RA was significantly (P < 0.001) stimulated by the presence of RIr hyphae: bacterial counts in the RIr/RA treatment were c. 108 CFU mlÀ1 medium compared with c. 107 CFU mlÀ1 medium in the RA-only treatment at both 2 and 4 wk
- Bacterial counts were significantly (P = 0.001) higher at the 2-wk harvest than at the 4-wk harvest in both the RA and RIr/RA treatments (Fig. 4a)
- PSB, constituting up to 40% of all culturable bacteria ([^Jorquera_et+al_2008_a]), can make up for this defect in AMF (see hypothesis 2)

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- PSB also benefited the AMF by improving P availability, and these interactions had an indirect benefit for the plant, as shown by shoot P concentrations in the microcosm study. However, and counter to ==our first hypothesis, the benefit to the plant of the AMF–PSB interaction only occurred when additional P was also supplied (Fig. 1a). [^Toro_et+al_1997_a]) reported that PSB aided AMF in acquiring P from sources that were not otherwise accessible to the AMF==

## Future work
- Our original hypothesis that the PSB could utilize compounds released from the AMF hyphae was well supported (hypothesis 3). As we did not quantify the fungal exudates released in this study, further research is required on how both quantitative and qualitative differences in AMF exudates impact upon PSB growth.
- Future work is required to clarify the exact mechanisms that operate between AMF and PSB, but our results clearly suggest a key role for compounds released from the AMF hyphae.
- The results of our study suggest that the mechanisms behind resource exchange are complex but provide ideas for further studies.

## Data and code
- Supporting Information Additional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article
- Supporting Information Additional supporting information may be found in the online version


## References
[^Agnolucci_et+al_2015_a]: Agnolucci M, Battini F, Cristani C, Giovannetti M. 2015. Diverse bacterial communities are recruited on spores of different arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal isolates. Biology and Fertility of Soils 51: 379–389. [[Agnolucci_et+al_DiverseBacterialCommunitiesRecruitedSpores_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Agnolucci%2C%20M.%20Battini%2C%20F.%20Cristani%2C%20C.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Diverse%20bacterial%20communities%20are%20recruited%20on%20spores%20of%20different%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20isolates%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agnolucci%2C%20M.%20Battini%2C%20F.%20Cristani%2C%20C.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Diverse%20bacterial%20communities%20are%20recruited%20on%20spores%20of%20different%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20isolates%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Agnolucci%2C%20M.%20Battini%2C%20F.%20Cristani%2C%20C.%20Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Diverse%20bacterial%20communities%20are%20recruited%20on%20spores%20of%20different%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20isolates%202015)

[^Artursson_et+al_2006_a]: Artursson V, Finlay RD, Jansson JK. 2006. Interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and bacteria and their potential for stimulating plant growth. Environmental Microbiology 8: 1–10. [[Artursson_et+al_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006)

[^Babikova_et+al_2014_a]: Babikova Z, Gilbert L, Bruce T, Dewhurst SY, Pickett JA, Johnson D. 2014. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and aphids interact by changing host plant quality and volatile emission. Functional Ecology 28: 375–385. [[Babikova_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiAphidsInteract_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Babikova%2C%20Z.%20Gilbert%2C%20L.%20Bruce%2C%20T.%20Dewhurst%2C%20S.Y.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20aphids%20interact%20by%20changing%20host%20plant%20quality%20and%20volatile%20emission%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Babikova%2C%20Z.%20Gilbert%2C%20L.%20Bruce%2C%20T.%20Dewhurst%2C%20S.Y.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20aphids%20interact%20by%20changing%20host%20plant%20quality%20and%20volatile%20emission%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Babikova%2C%20Z.%20Gilbert%2C%20L.%20Bruce%2C%20T.%20Dewhurst%2C%20S.Y.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20aphids%20interact%20by%20changing%20host%20plant%20quality%20and%20volatile%20emission%202014)

[^Becard_1988_a]: Becard G, Fortin JA. 1988. Early events of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza formation on Ri T-DNA transformed roots. New Phytologist 108: 211–218. [[Becard_EarlyEventsVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizaFormation_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becard%2C%20G.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Early%20events%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20on%20Ri%20T-DNA%20transformed%20roots%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becard%2C%20G.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Early%20events%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20on%20Ri%20T-DNA%20transformed%20roots%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becard%2C%20G.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Early%20events%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20formation%20on%20Ri%20T-DNA%20transformed%20roots%201988)

[^Bender_et+al_2014_a]: Bender SF, Plantenga F, Neftel A, Jocher M, Oberholzer HR, K€ohl L, Giles M, Daniell TJ, van der Heijden M. 2014. Symbiotic relationships between soil fungi and plants reduce N2O emissions from soil. ISME Journal 8: 1336–1345. [[Bender_et+al_SymbioticRelationshipsBetweenSoilFungi_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Plantenga%2C%20F.%20Neftel%2C%20A.%20Jocher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Plantenga%2C%20F.%20Neftel%2C%20A.%20Jocher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bender%2C%20S.F.%20Plantenga%2C%20F.%20Neftel%2C%20A.%20Jocher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20relationships%20between%20soil%20fungi%20and%20plants%20reduce%20N2O%20emissions%20from%20soil%202014)

[^Bever_et+al_2009_a]: Bever JD, Richardson SC, Lawrence BM, Holmes J, Watson M. 2009. Preferential allocation to beneficial symbiont with spatial structure maintains mycorrhizal mutualism. Ecology Letters 12: 13–21. [[Bever_et+al_PreferentialAllocationBeneficialSymbiontWith_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bever%2C%20J.D.%20Richardson%2C%20S.C.%20Lawrence%2C%20B.M.%20Holmes%2C%20J.%20Preferential%20allocation%20to%20beneficial%20symbiont%20with%20spatial%20structure%20maintains%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bever%2C%20J.D.%20Richardson%2C%20S.C.%20Lawrence%2C%20B.M.%20Holmes%2C%20J.%20Preferential%20allocation%20to%20beneficial%20symbiont%20with%20spatial%20structure%20maintains%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bever%2C%20J.D.%20Richardson%2C%20S.C.%20Lawrence%2C%20B.M.%20Holmes%2C%20J.%20Preferential%20allocation%20to%20beneficial%20symbiont%20with%20spatial%20structure%20maintains%20mycorrhizal%20mutualism%202009)

[^Bharadwaj_et+al_2012_a]: Bharadwaj DP, Alstr€om S, Lundquist P-O. 2012. Interactions among Glomus irregulare, arbuscular mycorrhizal spore-associated bacteria, and plant pathogens under in vitro conditions. Mycorrhiza 22: 437–447. [[Bharadwaj_et+al_InteractionsAmongGlomusIrregulareArbuscular_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bharadwaj%2C%20D.P.%20Alstr%E2%82%ACom%2C%20S.%20Lundquist%2C%20P.-O.%20Interactions%20among%20Glomus%20irregulare%2C%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20spore-associated%20bacteria%2C%20and%20plant%20pathogens%20under%20in%20vitro%20conditions%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bharadwaj%2C%20D.P.%20Alstr%E2%82%ACom%2C%20S.%20Lundquist%2C%20P.-O.%20Interactions%20among%20Glomus%20irregulare%2C%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20spore-associated%20bacteria%2C%20and%20plant%20pathogens%20under%20in%20vitro%20conditions%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bharadwaj%2C%20D.P.%20Alstr%E2%82%ACom%2C%20S.%20Lundquist%2C%20P.-O.%20Interactions%20among%20Glomus%20irregulare%2C%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20spore-associated%20bacteria%2C%20and%20plant%20pathogens%20under%20in%20vitro%20conditions%202012)

[^Blagodatskaya_2013_a]: Blagodatskaya E, Kuzyakov Y. 2013. Active microorganisms in soil: critical review of estimation criteria and approaches. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 67: 192–211. [[Blagodatskaya_ActiveMicroorganismsSoilCriticalReview_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Blagodatskaya%2C%20E.%20Kuzyakov%2C%20Y.%20Active%20microorganisms%20in%20soil%3A%20critical%20review%20of%20estimation%20criteria%20and%20approaches%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Blagodatskaya%2C%20E.%20Kuzyakov%2C%20Y.%20Active%20microorganisms%20in%20soil%3A%20critical%20review%20of%20estimation%20criteria%20and%20approaches%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Blagodatskaya%2C%20E.%20Kuzyakov%2C%20Y.%20Active%20microorganisms%20in%20soil%3A%20critical%20review%20of%20estimation%20criteria%20and%20approaches%202013)

[^Bonfante_2009_a]: Bonfante P, Anca I-A. 2009. [[Bonfante__2009]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bonfante%20P%20Anca%20IA%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bonfante%20P%20Anca%20IA%202009) 

[^Brookes_et+al_1982_a]: Brookes PC, Powlson DS, Jenkinson DS. 1982. Measurement of microbial biomass phosphorus in soil. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 14: 319–329. [[Brookes_et+al_MeasurementMicrobialBiomassPhosphorusSoil_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brookes%2C%20P.C.%20Powlson%2C%20D.S.%20Jenkinson%2C%20D.S.%20Measurement%20of%20microbial%20biomass%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brookes%2C%20P.C.%20Powlson%2C%20D.S.%20Jenkinson%2C%20D.S.%20Measurement%20of%20microbial%20biomass%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brookes%2C%20P.C.%20Powlson%2C%20D.S.%20Jenkinson%2C%20D.S.%20Measurement%20of%20microbial%20biomass%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%201982)

[^Chase_1980_a]: Chase ID. 1980. Cooperative and noncooperative behavior in animals. The American Naturalist 115: 827–857. [[Chase_CooperativeNoncooperativeBehaviorAnimals_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chase%2C%20I.D.%20Cooperative%20and%20noncooperative%20behavior%20in%20animals%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chase%2C%20I.D.%20Cooperative%20and%20noncooperative%20behavior%20in%20animals%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chase%2C%20I.D.%20Cooperative%20and%20noncooperative%20behavior%20in%20animals%201980)

[^Chen_2007_a]: Chen F. 2007. Primary studies on biological control of grapevine crown gall by Rahnella aquatilis HX2. PhD thesis, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China. [[Chen_PrimaryStudiesBiologicalControlGrapevine_2007]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20F.%20Primary%20studies%20on%20biological%20control%20of%20grapevine%20crown%20gall%20by%20Rahnella%20aquatilis%20HX2%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20F.%20Primary%20studies%20on%20biological%20control%20of%20grapevine%20crown%20gall%20by%20Rahnella%20aquatilis%20HX2%202007) 

[^Cheng_et+al_2012_a]: Cheng L, Brooker FL, Tu C, Burkey KO, Zhou LS, Shew HD, Rufty TW, Hu SJ. 2012. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi increase organic carbon decomposition under elevated CO2. Science 337: 1084–1087. [[Cheng_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiIncreaseOrganic_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Brooker%2C%20F.L.%20Tu%2C%20C.%20Burkey%2C%20K.O.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Brooker%2C%20F.L.%20Tu%2C%20C.%20Burkey%2C%20K.O.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cheng%2C%20L.%20Brooker%2C%20F.L.%20Tu%2C%20C.%20Burkey%2C%20K.O.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20increase%20organic%20carbon%20decomposition%20under%20elevated%20CO2%202012)

[^Christensen_1993_a]: Christensen H, Jakobsen I. 1993. Reduction of bacterial growth by a vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal fungus in the rhizosphere of cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). Biology and Fertility of Soils 15: 253–258. [[Christensen_ReductionBacterialGrowthVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Christensen%2C%20H.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Reduction%20of%20bacterial%20growth%20by%20a%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%20L.%29%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Christensen%2C%20H.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Reduction%20of%20bacterial%20growth%20by%20a%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%20L.%29%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Christensen%2C%20H.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Reduction%20of%20bacterial%20growth%20by%20a%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%20L.%29%201993)

[^Dorsky_et+al_2003_a]: Dorsky RI, Itoh M, Moon RT, Chitnis A. 2003. Two tcf3 genes cooperate to pattern the zebrafish brain. Development 130: 1937–1947. [[Dorsky_et+al_Tcf3GenesCooperatePatternZebrafish_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dorsky%2C%20R.I.%20Itoh%2C%20M.%20Moon%2C%20R.T.%20Chitnis%2C%20A.%20Two%20tcf3%20genes%20cooperate%20to%20pattern%20the%20zebrafish%20brain%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dorsky%2C%20R.I.%20Itoh%2C%20M.%20Moon%2C%20R.T.%20Chitnis%2C%20A.%20Two%20tcf3%20genes%20cooperate%20to%20pattern%20the%20zebrafish%20brain%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dorsky%2C%20R.I.%20Itoh%2C%20M.%20Moon%2C%20R.T.%20Chitnis%2C%20A.%20Two%20tcf3%20genes%20cooperate%20to%20pattern%20the%20zebrafish%20brain%202003)

[^Douglas_2008_a]: Douglas AE. 2008. [[Douglas__2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Douglas%20AE%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Douglas%20AE%202008) 

[^Drigo_et+al_2010_a]: Drigo B, Pijl AS, Duyts H, Kielak AM, Gamper HA, Houtekamer MJ, Boschker HTS, Bodelier PLE, Whiteley AS, van Veen JA et al. 2010. Shifting carbon flow from roots into associated microbial communities in response to elevated atmospheric CO2. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA 107: 10938–10942. [[Drigo_et+al_ShiftingCarbonFlowFromRoots_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Drigo%2C%20B.%20Pijl%2C%20A.S.%20Duyts%2C%20H.%20Kielak%2C%20A.M.%20Shifting%20carbon%20flow%20from%20roots%20into%20associated%20microbial%20communities%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Drigo%2C%20B.%20Pijl%2C%20A.S.%20Duyts%2C%20H.%20Kielak%2C%20A.M.%20Shifting%20carbon%20flow%20from%20roots%20into%20associated%20microbial%20communities%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Drigo%2C%20B.%20Pijl%2C%20A.S.%20Duyts%2C%20H.%20Kielak%2C%20A.M.%20Shifting%20carbon%20flow%20from%20roots%20into%20associated%20microbial%20communities%20in%20response%20to%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%202010)

[^Fellbaum_et+al_2014_a]: Fellbaum CR, Mensah JA, Cloos AJ, Strahan GE, Pfeffer PE, Kiers ET, Bu€cking H. 2014. Fungal nutrient allocation in common mycorrhizal networks is regulated by the carbon source strength of individual host plants. New Phytologist 203: 646–656. [[Fellbaum_et+al_FungalNutrientAllocationCommonMycorrhizal_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Cloos%2C%20A.J.%20Strahan%2C%20G.E.%20Fungal%20nutrient%20allocation%20in%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20is%20regulated%20by%20the%20carbon%20source%20strength%20of%20individual%20host%20plants%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Cloos%2C%20A.J.%20Strahan%2C%20G.E.%20Fungal%20nutrient%20allocation%20in%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20is%20regulated%20by%20the%20carbon%20source%20strength%20of%20individual%20host%20plants%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fellbaum%2C%20C.R.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Cloos%2C%20A.J.%20Strahan%2C%20G.E.%20Fungal%20nutrient%20allocation%20in%20common%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20is%20regulated%20by%20the%20carbon%20source%20strength%20of%20individual%20host%20plants%202014)

[^Feng_et+al_2003_a]: Feng G, Song YC, Li XL, Christie P. 2003. Contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to utilization of organic sources of phosphorus by red clover in a calcareous soil. Applied Soil Ecology 22: 139–148. [[Feng_et+al_ContributionArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiUtilization_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feng%2C%20G.%20Song%2C%20Y.C.%20Li%2C%20X.L.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20to%20utilization%20of%20organic%20sources%20of%20phosphorus%20by%20red%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feng%2C%20G.%20Song%2C%20Y.C.%20Li%2C%20X.L.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20to%20utilization%20of%20organic%20sources%20of%20phosphorus%20by%20red%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feng%2C%20G.%20Song%2C%20Y.C.%20Li%2C%20X.L.%20Christie%2C%20P.%20Contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20to%20utilization%20of%20organic%20sources%20of%20phosphorus%20by%20red%20clover%20in%20a%20calcareous%20soil%202003)

[^Filion_et+al_1999_a]: Filion M, St-Arnaud M, Fortin JA. 1999. Direct interaction between the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices and different rhizosphere microorganisms. New Phytologist 141: 525–533. [[Filion_et+al_DirectInteractionBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizal_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Filion%2C%20M.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Direct%20interaction%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20and%20different%20rhizosphere%20microorganisms%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Filion%2C%20M.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Direct%20interaction%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20and%20different%20rhizosphere%20microorganisms%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Filion%2C%20M.%20St-Arnaud%2C%20M.%20Fortin%2C%20J.A.%20Direct%20interaction%20between%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%20and%20different%20rhizosphere%20microorganisms%201999)

[^Fiorilli_et+al_2013_a]: Fiorilli V, Lanfranco L, Bonfante P. 2013. The expression of GintPT, the phosphate transporter of Rhizophagus irregularis, depends on the symbiotic status and phosphate availability. Planta 237: 1267–1277. [[Fiorilli_et+al_ExpressionGintptPhosphateTransporterRhizophagus_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fiorilli%2C%20V.%20Lanfranco%2C%20L.%20Bonfante%2C%20P.%20The%20expression%20of%20GintPT%2C%20the%20phosphate%20transporter%20of%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20depends%20on%20the%20symbiotic%20status%20and%20phosphate%20availability%202013)

[^Frey-Klett_et+al_2007_a]: Frey-Klett P, Garbaye J, Tarkka M. 2007. The mycorrhiza helper bacteria revisited. New Phytologist 176: 22–36. [[Frey-Klett_et+al_MycorrhizaHelperBacteriaRevisited_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Frey-Klett%2C%20P.%20Garbaye%2C%20J.%20Tarkka%2C%20M.%20The%20mycorrhiza%20helper%20bacteria%20revisited%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frey-Klett%2C%20P.%20Garbaye%2C%20J.%20Tarkka%2C%20M.%20The%20mycorrhiza%20helper%20bacteria%20revisited%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Frey-Klett%2C%20P.%20Garbaye%2C%20J.%20Tarkka%2C%20M.%20The%20mycorrhiza%20helper%20bacteria%20revisited%202007)

[^Gahan_2015_a]: Gahan J, Schmalenberger A. 2015. Arbuscular mycorrhizal hyphae in grassland select for a diverse and abundant hyphospheric bacterial community involved in sulfonate desulfurization. Applied Soil Ecology 89: 113–121. [[Gahan_ArbuscularMycorrhizalHyphaeGrasslandSelect_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gahan%2C%20J.%20Schmalenberger%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20in%20grassland%20select%20for%20a%20diverse%20and%20abundant%20hyphospheric%20bacterial%20community%20involved%20in%20sulfonate%20desulfurization%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gahan%2C%20J.%20Schmalenberger%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20in%20grassland%20select%20for%20a%20diverse%20and%20abundant%20hyphospheric%20bacterial%20community%20involved%20in%20sulfonate%20desulfurization%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gahan%2C%20J.%20Schmalenberger%2C%20A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20in%20grassland%20select%20for%20a%20diverse%20and%20abundant%20hyphospheric%20bacterial%20community%20involved%20in%20sulfonate%20desulfurization%202015)

[^Griffin_et+al_2004_a]: Griffin AS, West SA, Buckling A. 2004. Cooperation and competition in pathogenic bacteria. Nature 430: 1024–1027. [[Griffin_et+al_CooperationCompetitionPathogenicBacteria_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Buckling%2C%20A.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20in%20pathogenic%20bacteria%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Buckling%2C%20A.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20in%20pathogenic%20bacteria%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Buckling%2C%20A.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20in%20pathogenic%20bacteria%202004)

[^Guo_et+al_2012_a]: Guo YB, Jiao ZW, Li L, Wu D, Crowley DE, Wang YJ, Wu WL. 2012. Draft genome sequence of Rahnella aquatilis strain HX2, a plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium isolated from vineyard soil in Beijing, China. Journal of Bacteriology 194: 6646–6647. [[Guo_et+al_DraftGenomeSequenceRahnellaAquatilis_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guo%2C%20Y.B.%20Jiao%2C%20Z.W.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Wu%2C%20D.%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20Rahnella%20aquatilis%20strain%20HX2%2C%20a%20plant%20growth-promoting%20rhizobacterium%20isolated%20from%20vineyard%20soil%20in%20Beijing%2C%20China%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guo%2C%20Y.B.%20Jiao%2C%20Z.W.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Wu%2C%20D.%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20Rahnella%20aquatilis%20strain%20HX2%2C%20a%20plant%20growth-promoting%20rhizobacterium%20isolated%20from%20vineyard%20soil%20in%20Beijing%2C%20China%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guo%2C%20Y.B.%20Jiao%2C%20Z.W.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Wu%2C%20D.%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20Rahnella%20aquatilis%20strain%20HX2%2C%20a%20plant%20growth-promoting%20rhizobacterium%20isolated%20from%20vineyard%20soil%20in%20Beijing%2C%20China%202012)

[^Hamilton_1963_a]: Hamilton WD. 1963. The evolution of altruistic behavior. The American Naturalist 97: 354–356. [[Hamilton_EvolutionAltruisticBehavior_1963]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hamilton%2C%20W.D.%20The%20evolution%20of%20altruistic%20behavior%201963) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hamilton%2C%20W.D.%20The%20evolution%20of%20altruistic%20behavior%201963) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hamilton%2C%20W.D.%20The%20evolution%20of%20altruistic%20behavior%201963)

[^Hammer_et+al_2011_a]: Hammer EC, Pallon J, Wallander H, Olsson PA. 2011. Tit for tat? A mycorrhizal fungus accumulates phosphorus under low plant carbon availability. FEMS Microbiology Ecology 76: 236–244. [[Hammer_et+al_AMycorrhizalFungusAccumulates_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hammer%2C%20E.C.%20Pallon%2C%20J.%20Wallander%2C%20H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Tit%20for%20tat%3F%20A%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accumulates%20phosphorus%20under%20low%20plant%20carbon%20availability%202011)

[^Harcombe_2010_a]: Harcombe W. 2010. Novel cooperation experimentally evolved between species. Evolution 64: 2166–2172. [[Harcombe_NovelCooperationExperimentallyEvolvedBetween_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harcombe%2C%20W.%20Novel%20cooperation%20experimentally%20evolved%20between%20species%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harcombe%2C%20W.%20Novel%20cooperation%20experimentally%20evolved%20between%20species%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harcombe%2C%20W.%20Novel%20cooperation%20experimentally%20evolved%20between%20species%202010)

[^Hayes_et+al_2000_a]: Hayes JE, Richardson AE, Simpson RJ. 2000. Components of organic phosphorus in soil extracts that are hydrolysed by phytase and acid phosphatase. Biology and Fertility of Soils 32: 279–286. [[Hayes_et+al_ComponentsOrganicPhosphorusSoilExtracts_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hayes%2C%20J.E.%20Richardson%2C%20A.E.%20Simpson%2C%20R.J.%20Components%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%20extracts%20that%20are%20hydrolysed%20by%20phytase%20and%20acid%20phosphatase%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hayes%2C%20J.E.%20Richardson%2C%20A.E.%20Simpson%2C%20R.J.%20Components%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%20extracts%20that%20are%20hydrolysed%20by%20phytase%20and%20acid%20phosphatase%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hayes%2C%20J.E.%20Richardson%2C%20A.E.%20Simpson%2C%20R.J.%20Components%20of%20organic%20phosphorus%20in%20soil%20extracts%20that%20are%20hydrolysed%20by%20phytase%20and%20acid%20phosphatase%202000)

[^Herman_et+al_2012_a]: Herman DJ, Firestone MK, Nuccio E, Hodge A. 2012. Interactions between an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and a soil microbial community mediating litter decomposition. FEMS Microbiology Ecology 80: 236–247. [[Herman_et+al_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungus_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Herman%2C%20D.J.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nuccio%2C%20E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20soil%20microbial%20community%20mediating%20litter%20decomposition%202012)

[^Hodge_2003_a]: Hodge A. 2003. Plant nitrogen capture from organic matter as affected by spatial dispersion, interspecific competition and mycorrhizal colonization. New Phytologist 157: 303–314. [[Hodge_PlantNitrogenCaptureFromOrganic_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Plant%20nitrogen%20capture%20from%20organic%20matter%20as%20affected%20by%20spatial%20dispersion%2C%20interspecific%20competition%20and%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Plant%20nitrogen%20capture%20from%20organic%20matter%20as%20affected%20by%20spatial%20dispersion%2C%20interspecific%20competition%20and%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Plant%20nitrogen%20capture%20from%20organic%20matter%20as%20affected%20by%20spatial%20dispersion%2C%20interspecific%20competition%20and%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202003)

[^Hodge_2014_a]: Hodge A. 2014. Interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and organic material substrates. Advances in Applied Microbiology 89: 47–99. [[Hodge_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20organic%20material%20substrates%202014)

[^Hodge_et+al_2001_a]: Hodge A, Campbell CD, Fitter AH. 2001. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature 413: 297–299. [[Hodge_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^Hodge_2010_a]: Hodge A, Fitter AH. 2010. Substantial nitrogen acquisition by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic material has implications for N cycling. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA 107: 13754–13759. [[Hodge_SubstantialNitrogenAcquisitionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010)

[^Hodge_1998_a]: Hodge A, Millard P. 1998. Effect of elevated CO2 on carbon partitioning and exudate release from Plantago lanceolata seedlings. Physiologia Plantarum 103: 280–286. [[Hodge_EffectElevatedCo2CarbonPartitioning_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Millard%2C%20P.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20on%20carbon%20partitioning%20and%20exudate%20release%20from%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20seedlings%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Millard%2C%20P.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20on%20carbon%20partitioning%20and%20exudate%20release%20from%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20seedlings%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Millard%2C%20P.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20CO2%20on%20carbon%20partitioning%20and%20exudate%20release%20from%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20seedlings%201998)

[^Hodge_et+al_1998_b]: Hodge A, Paterson E, Grayston SJ, Campbell CD, Ord BG, Killham K. 1998. Characterisation and microbial utilization of exudate material from the rhizosphere of Lolium perenne grown under enrichment. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 30: 1033–1043. [[Hodge_et+al_CharacterisationMicrobialUtilizationExudateMaterial_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Paterson%2C%20E.%20Grayston%2C%20S.J.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Characterisation%20and%20microbial%20utilization%20of%20exudate%20material%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20Lolium%20perenne%20grown%20under%20enrichment%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Paterson%2C%20E.%20Grayston%2C%20S.J.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Characterisation%20and%20microbial%20utilization%20of%20exudate%20material%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20Lolium%20perenne%20grown%20under%20enrichment%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Paterson%2C%20E.%20Grayston%2C%20S.J.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Characterisation%20and%20microbial%20utilization%20of%20exudate%20material%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20Lolium%20perenne%20grown%20under%20enrichment%201998)

[^Irving_1990_a]: Irving GCJ, McLaughlin MJ. 1990. A rapid and simple field test for phosphorus in Olsen and Bray No. 1 extracts of soil. Communications in Soil Science and Plant Analysis 21: 2245–2255. [[Irving_RapidSimpleFieldTestPhosphorus_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Irving%2C%20G.C.J.%20McLaughlin%2C%20M.J.%20A%20rapid%20and%20simple%20field%20test%20for%20phosphorus%20in%20Olsen%20and%20Bray%20No.%201%20extracts%20of%20soil.%20Communications%20in%20Soil%20Science%20and%20Plant%20Analysis%2021%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Irving%2C%20G.C.J.%20McLaughlin%2C%20M.J.%20A%20rapid%20and%20simple%20field%20test%20for%20phosphorus%20in%20Olsen%20and%20Bray%20No.%201%20extracts%20of%20soil.%20Communications%20in%20Soil%20Science%20and%20Plant%20Analysis%2021%201990) 

[^Jackson_1958_a]: Jackson ML. 1958. Soil chemical analysis. Englewood Cliffs, NJ, USA: PrenticeHall. [[Jackson_SoilChemicalAnalysis_1958]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jackson%2C%20M.L.%20Soil%20chemical%20analysis%201958) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jackson%2C%20M.L.%20Soil%20chemical%20analysis%201958) 

[^Jansa_et+al_2013_a]: Jansa J, Bukovska P, Gryndler M. 2013. Mycorrhizal hyphae as ecological niche for highly specialized hypersymbionts – or just soil free-riders? Frontiers in Plant Science 4: 134. [[Jansa_et+al_MycorrhizalHyphaeEcologicalNicheHighly_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Gryndler%2C%20M.%20Mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20as%20ecological%20niche%20for%20highly%20specialized%20hypersymbionts%20%E2%80%93%20or%20just%20soil%20free-riders%3F%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Gryndler%2C%20M.%20Mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20as%20ecological%20niche%20for%20highly%20specialized%20hypersymbionts%20%E2%80%93%20or%20just%20soil%20free-riders%3F%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Bukovska%2C%20P.%20Gryndler%2C%20M.%20Mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20as%20ecological%20niche%20for%20highly%20specialized%20hypersymbionts%20%E2%80%93%20or%20just%20soil%20free-riders%3F%202013)

[^Jorquera_et+al_2008_a]: Jorquera MA, Hernandez MT, Rengel Z, Marschner P, de la Luz Mora M. 2008. Isolation of culturable phosphobacteria with both phytate-mineralization and phosphate-solubilization activity from the rhizosphere of plants grown in a volcanic soil. Biology and Fertility of Soils 44: 1025–1034. [[Jorquera_et+al_IsolationCulturablePhosphobacteriaWithBoth_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jorquera%2C%20M.A.%20Hernandez%2C%20M.T.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Marschner%2C%20P.%20Isolation%20of%20culturable%20phosphobacteria%20with%20both%20phytate-mineralization%20and%20phosphate-solubilization%20activity%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20plants%20grown%20in%20a%20volcanic%20soil%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jorquera%2C%20M.A.%20Hernandez%2C%20M.T.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Marschner%2C%20P.%20Isolation%20of%20culturable%20phosphobacteria%20with%20both%20phytate-mineralization%20and%20phosphate-solubilization%20activity%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20plants%20grown%20in%20a%20volcanic%20soil%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jorquera%2C%20M.A.%20Hernandez%2C%20M.T.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Marschner%2C%20P.%20Isolation%20of%20culturable%20phosphobacteria%20with%20both%20phytate-mineralization%20and%20phosphate-solubilization%20activity%20from%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20plants%20grown%20in%20a%20volcanic%20soil%202008)

[^Kaiser_et+al_2015_a]: Kaiser C, Kilburn MR, Clode PL, Fuchslueger L, Koranda M, Cliff JB, Solaiman ZM, Murphy D. 2015. Exploring the transfer of recent plant photosynthates to soil microbes: mycorrhizal pathway vs direct root exudation. New Phytologist 205: 1537–1551. [[Kaiser_et+al_ExploringTransferRecentPlantPhotosynthates_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Kilburn%2C%20M.R.%20Clode%2C%20P.L.%20Fuchslueger%2C%20L.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Kilburn%2C%20M.R.%20Clode%2C%20P.L.%20Fuchslueger%2C%20L.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kaiser%2C%20C.%20Kilburn%2C%20M.R.%20Clode%2C%20P.L.%20Fuchslueger%2C%20L.%20Exploring%20the%20transfer%20of%20recent%20plant%20photosynthates%20to%20soil%20microbes%3A%20mycorrhizal%20pathway%20vs%20direct%20root%20exudation%202015)

[^Karasawa_et+al_2012_a]: Karasawa T, Hodge A, Fitter AH. 2012. [[Karasawa_et+al__2012]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karasawa%20T%20Hodge%20A%20Fitter%20AH%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karasawa%20T%20Hodge%20A%20Fitter%20AH%202012) 

[^Keller_1999_a]: Keller L, Chapuisat M. 1999. Cooperation among selfish individuals in insect societies. BioScience 49: 899–909. [[Keller_CooperationAmongSelfishIndividualsInsect_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Keller%2C%20L.%20Chapuisat%2C%20M.%20Cooperation%20among%20selfish%20individuals%20in%20insect%20societies%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Keller%2C%20L.%20Chapuisat%2C%20M.%20Cooperation%20among%20selfish%20individuals%20in%20insect%20societies%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Keller%2C%20L.%20Chapuisat%2C%20M.%20Cooperation%20among%20selfish%20individuals%20in%20insect%20societies%201999)

[^Kiers_et+al_2011_a]: Kiers ET, Duhamel M, Beesetty Y, Mensah JA, Franken O, Verbruggen E, Fellbaum CR, Kowalchuk GA, Hart MM, Bago A et al. 2011. Reciprocal rewards stabilize cooperation in the mycorrhizal symbiosis. Science 333: 880–882. [[Kiers_et+al_ReciprocalRewardsStabilizeCooperationMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Duhamel%2C%20M.%20Beesetty%2C%20Y.%20Mensah%2C%20J.A.%20Reciprocal%20rewards%20stabilize%20cooperation%20in%20the%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202011)

[^Kiers_et+al_2003_a]: Kiers ET, Rousseau RA, West SA, Denison RF. 2003. Host sanctions and the legume–rhizobium mutualism. Nature 425: 78–81. [[Kiers_et+al_HostSanctionsLegumerhizobiumMutualism_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Rousseau%2C%20R.A.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Denison%2C%20R.F.%20Host%20sanctions%20and%20the%20legume%E2%80%93rhizobium%20mutualism%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Rousseau%2C%20R.A.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Denison%2C%20R.F.%20Host%20sanctions%20and%20the%20legume%E2%80%93rhizobium%20mutualism%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kiers%2C%20E.T.%20Rousseau%2C%20R.A.%20West%2C%20S.A.%20Denison%2C%20R.F.%20Host%20sanctions%20and%20the%20legume%E2%80%93rhizobium%20mutualism%202003)

[^Kikuchi_et+al_2014_a]: Kikuchi Y, Hijikata N, Yokoyama K, Ohtomo R, Handa Y, Kawaguchi M, Saito K, Ezawa T. 2014. Polyphosphate accumulation is driven by transcripome alterations that lead to near-synchronous and near-equivalent uptake of inorganic cations in an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytologist 204: 638–649. [[Kikuchi_et+al_PolyphosphateAccumulationDrivenTranscripomeAlterations_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcripome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcripome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kikuchi%2C%20Y.%20Hijikata%2C%20N.%20Yokoyama%2C%20K.%20Ohtomo%2C%20R.%20Polyphosphate%20accumulation%20is%20driven%20by%20transcripome%20alterations%20that%20lead%20to%20near-synchronous%20and%20near-equivalent%20uptake%20of%20inorganic%20cations%20in%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202014)

[^Kim_et+al_1998_a]: Kim KY, Jordon D, McDonald GA. 1998. Effect of phosphate-solubilizing bacteria abd vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae on tomato growth and soil microbial activity. Biology and Fertility of Soils 26: 79–97. [[Kim_et+al_EffectPhosphatesolubilizingBacteriaVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizae_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kim%2C%20K.Y.%20Jordon%2C%20D.%20McDonald%2C%20G.A.%20Effect%20of%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacteria%20abd%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20on%20tomato%20growth%20and%20soil%20microbial%20activity%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20K.Y.%20Jordon%2C%20D.%20McDonald%2C%20G.A.%20Effect%20of%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacteria%20abd%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20on%20tomato%20growth%20and%20soil%20microbial%20activity%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kim%2C%20K.Y.%20Jordon%2C%20D.%20McDonald%2C%20G.A.%20Effect%20of%20phosphate-solubilizing%20bacteria%20abd%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20on%20tomato%20growth%20and%20soil%20microbial%20activity%201998)

[^Leigh_et+al_2011_a]: Leigh J, Fitter AH, Hodge A. 2011. Growth and symbiotic effectiveness of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus in organic matter in competition with soil bacteria. FEMS Microbiology Ecology 76: 428–438. [[Leigh_et+al_GrowthSymbioticEffectivenessArbuscularMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Growth%20and%20symbiotic%20effectiveness%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20in%20organic%20matter%20in%20competition%20with%20soil%20bacteria%202011)

[^Lynch_1990_a]: Lynch JM, Whipps JM. 1990. Substrate flow in the rhizosphere. Plant and Soil 129: 1–10. [[Lynch_SubstrateFlowRhizospherePlantSoil_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lynch%2C%20J.M.%20Whipps%2C%20J.M.%20Substrate%20flow%20in%20the%20rhizosphere.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20129%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lynch%2C%20J.M.%20Whipps%2C%20J.M.%20Substrate%20flow%20in%20the%20rhizosphere.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20129%201990) 

[^Nannipieri_et+al_2003_a]: Nannipieri P, Ascher J, Ceccherini MT, Landi L, Pietramellara G, Renella G. 2003. Microbial diversity and soil functions. European Journal of Soil Science 54: 655–670. [[Nannipieri_et+al_MicrobialDiversitySoilFunctions_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nannipieri%2C%20P.%20Ascher%2C%20J.%20Ceccherini%2C%20M.T.%20Landi%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20soil%20functions%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nannipieri%2C%20P.%20Ascher%2C%20J.%20Ceccherini%2C%20M.T.%20Landi%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20soil%20functions%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nannipieri%2C%20P.%20Ascher%2C%20J.%20Ceccherini%2C%20M.T.%20Landi%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20soil%20functions%202003)

[^Neumann_2006_a]: Neumann G. 2006. Quantitative determination of acid phosphatase activity in the rhizosphere and on the root surface. In: Luster J, Finlay R, eds. Handbook of methods used in rhizosphere research. Birmensdorf, Switzerland: Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, 79–85. [[Neumann_QuantitativeDeterminationAcidPhosphataseActivity_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Neumann%2C%20G.%20Quantitative%20determination%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20on%20the%20root%20surface%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Neumann%2C%20G.%20Quantitative%20determination%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20on%20the%20root%20surface%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Neumann%2C%20G.%20Quantitative%20determination%20of%20acid%20phosphatase%20activity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20and%20on%20the%20root%20surface%202006)

[^Nowak_2006_a]: Nowak MA. 2006. Five rules for the evolution of cooperation. Science 314: 1560–1563. [[Nowak_FiveRulesEvolutionCooperation_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nowak%2C%20M.A.%20Five%20rules%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nowak%2C%20M.A.%20Five%20rules%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nowak%2C%20M.A.%20Five%20rules%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202006)

[^Nuccio_et+al_2013_a]: Nuccio EE, Hodge A, Pett-Ridge J, Herman DJ, Weber PK, Firestone MK. 2013. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus significantly modifies the soil bacterial community and nitrogen cycling during litter decomposition. Environmental Microbiology 15: 1870–1881. [[Nuccio_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusSignificantlyModifies_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Pett-Ridge%2C%20J.%20Herman%2C%20D.J.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Pett-Ridge%2C%20J.%20Herman%2C%20D.J.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nuccio%2C%20E.E.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Pett-Ridge%2C%20J.%20Herman%2C%20D.J.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20significantly%20modifies%20the%20soil%20bacterial%20community%20and%20nitrogen%20cycling%20during%20litter%20decomposition%202013)

[^Rainey_2014_a]: Rainey PB, De Monte S. 2014. Resolving conflicts during the evolutionary transition to multicellular life. Annual Review of Ecology Evolution and Systematics 45: 599–620. [[Rainey_ResolvingConflictsDuringEvolutionaryTransition_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rainey%2C%20P.B.%20De%20Monte%2C%20S.%20Resolving%20conflicts%20during%20the%20evolutionary%20transition%20to%20multicellular%20life%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rainey%2C%20P.B.%20De%20Monte%2C%20S.%20Resolving%20conflicts%20during%20the%20evolutionary%20transition%20to%20multicellular%20life%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rainey%2C%20P.B.%20De%20Monte%2C%20S.%20Resolving%20conflicts%20during%20the%20evolutionary%20transition%20to%20multicellular%20life%202014)

[^Sachs_et+al_2004_a]: Sachs JL, Mueller UG, Wilcox TP, Bull JJ. 2004. The evolution of cooperation. The Quarterly Review of Biology 79: 135–160. [[Sachs_et+al_EvolutionCooperation_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sachs%2C%20J.L.%20Mueller%2C%20U.G.%20Wilcox%2C%20T.P.%20Bull%2C%20J.J.%20The%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sachs%2C%20J.L.%20Mueller%2C%20U.G.%20Wilcox%2C%20T.P.%20Bull%2C%20J.J.%20The%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sachs%2C%20J.L.%20Mueller%2C%20U.G.%20Wilcox%2C%20T.P.%20Bull%2C%20J.J.%20The%20evolution%20of%20cooperation%202004)

[^Schausberger_et+al_2012_a]: Schausberger P, Peneder S, Ju€rschik S, Hoffmann D. 2012. Mycorrhiza changes plant volatiles to attract spider mite enemies. Functional Ecology 26: 441–449. [[Schausberger_et+al_MycorrhizaChangesPlantVolatilesAttract_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schausberger%2C%20P.%20Peneder%2C%20S.%20Ju%E2%82%ACrschik%2C%20S.%20Hoffmann%2C%20D.%20Mycorrhiza%20changes%20plant%20volatiles%20to%20attract%20spider%20mite%20enemies%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schausberger%2C%20P.%20Peneder%2C%20S.%20Ju%E2%82%ACrschik%2C%20S.%20Hoffmann%2C%20D.%20Mycorrhiza%20changes%20plant%20volatiles%20to%20attract%20spider%20mite%20enemies%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schausberger%2C%20P.%20Peneder%2C%20S.%20Ju%E2%82%ACrschik%2C%20S.%20Hoffmann%2C%20D.%20Mycorrhiza%20changes%20plant%20volatiles%20to%20attract%20spider%20mite%20enemies%202012)

[^Scheublin_et+al_2010_a]: Scheublin T, Sanders IR, Keel C, van der Meer JR. 2010. Characterisation of microbial communities colonising the hyphal surfaces of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. ISME Journal 4: 752–763. [[Scheublin_et+al_CharacterisationMicrobialCommunitiesColonisingHyphal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Keel%2C%20C.%20van%20der%20Meer%2C%20JR%20Characterisation%20of%20microbial%20communities%20colonising%20the%20hyphal%20surfaces%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheublin%2C%20T.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Keel%2C%20C.%20van%20der%20Meer%2C%20JR%20Characterisation%20of%20microbial%20communities%20colonising%20the%20hyphal%20surfaces%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Keel%2C%20C.%20van%20der%20Meer%2C%20JR%20Characterisation%20of%20microbial%20communities%20colonising%20the%20hyphal%20surfaces%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202010)

[^Shen_et+al_2003_a]: Shen JB, Rengel Z, Tang CX, Zhang FS. 2003. Role of phosphorus nutrition in development of cluster roots and release of carboxylates in soil-grown Lupinus albus. Plant and Soil 248: 199–206. [[Shen_et+al_RolePhosphorusNutritionDevelopmentCluster_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shen%2C%20J.B.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Tang%2C%20C.X.%20Zhang%2C%20F.S.%20Role%20of%20phosphorus%20nutrition%20in%20development%20of%20cluster%20roots%20and%20release%20of%20carboxylates%20in%20soil-grown%20Lupinus%20albus.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20248%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shen%2C%20J.B.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Tang%2C%20C.X.%20Zhang%2C%20F.S.%20Role%20of%20phosphorus%20nutrition%20in%20development%20of%20cluster%20roots%20and%20release%20of%20carboxylates%20in%20soil-grown%20Lupinus%20albus.%20Plant%20and%20Soil%20248%202003) 

[^Smit_et+al_2001_a]: Smit E, Leeflang P, Gommans S, van den Broek J, van Mil S, Wernars K. 2001. Diversity and seasonal fluctuations of the dominant members of the bacterial soil community in a wheat field as determined by cultivation and molecular methods. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 67: 2284–2291. [[Smit_et+al_DiversitySeasonalFluctuationsDominantMembers_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smit%2C%20E.%20Leeflang%2C%20P.%20Gommans%2C%20S.%20van%20den%20Broek%2C%20J.%20Diversity%20and%20seasonal%20fluctuations%20of%20the%20dominant%20members%20of%20the%20bacterial%20soil%20community%20in%20a%20wheat%20field%20as%20determined%20by%20cultivation%20and%20molecular%20methods%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smit%2C%20E.%20Leeflang%2C%20P.%20Gommans%2C%20S.%20van%20den%20Broek%2C%20J.%20Diversity%20and%20seasonal%20fluctuations%20of%20the%20dominant%20members%20of%20the%20bacterial%20soil%20community%20in%20a%20wheat%20field%20as%20determined%20by%20cultivation%20and%20molecular%20methods%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smit%2C%20E.%20Leeflang%2C%20P.%20Gommans%2C%20S.%20van%20den%20Broek%2C%20J.%20Diversity%20and%20seasonal%20fluctuations%20of%20the%20dominant%20members%20of%20the%20bacterial%20soil%20community%20in%20a%20wheat%20field%20as%20determined%20by%20cultivation%20and%20molecular%20methods%202001)

[^Smith_2008_a]: Smith SE, Read DJ. 2008. Mycorrhizal symbiosis, 3rd edn. London, UK: Academic Press. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) 

[^Staddon_et+al_1999_a]: Staddon PL, Fitter AH, Graves JD. 1999. Effect of elevated atmospheric CO2 on mycorrhizal colonization, external mycorrhizal hyphal production and phosphorus inflow in Plantago lanceolata and Trifolium repens in association with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus mosseae. Global Change Biology 5: 347–358. [[Staddon_et+al_EffectElevatedAtmosphericCo2Mycorrhizal_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Staddon%2C%20P.L.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Graves%2C%20J.D.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20on%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20external%20mycorrhizal%20hyphal%20production%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20in%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20and%20Trifolium%20repens%20in%20association%20with%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Staddon%2C%20P.L.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Graves%2C%20J.D.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20on%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20external%20mycorrhizal%20hyphal%20production%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20in%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20and%20Trifolium%20repens%20in%20association%20with%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Staddon%2C%20P.L.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Graves%2C%20J.D.%20Effect%20of%20elevated%20atmospheric%20CO2%20on%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%2C%20external%20mycorrhizal%20hyphal%20production%20and%20phosphorus%20inflow%20in%20Plantago%20lanceolata%20and%20Trifolium%20repens%20in%20association%20with%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20mosseae%201999)

[^Stevenson_1986_a]: Stevenson FJ. 1986. Cycles of soil carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur, micronutrients. New York, NY, USA: Wiley. [[Stevenson_CyclesSoilCarbonNitrogenPhosphorus_1986]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stevenson%2C%20F.J.%20Cycles%20of%20soil%20carbon%2C%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20sulfur%2C%20micronutrients%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stevenson%2C%20F.J.%20Cycles%20of%20soil%20carbon%2C%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20sulfur%2C%20micronutrients%201986) 

[^Thomas_et+al_1967_a]: Thomas RL, Sheard RW, Moyer JR. 1967. Comparison of conventional and automated procedures for nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium analysis of plant material using a single digestion. Agronomy Journal 59: 240–243. [[Thomas_et+al_ComparisonConventionalAutomatedProceduresNitrogen_1967]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thomas%2C%20R.L.%20Sheard%2C%20R.W.%20Moyer%2C%20JR%20Comparison%20of%20conventional%20and%20automated%20procedures%20for%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20potassium%20analysis%20of%20plant%20material%20using%20a%20single%20digestion%201967) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thomas%2C%20R.L.%20Sheard%2C%20R.W.%20Moyer%2C%20JR%20Comparison%20of%20conventional%20and%20automated%20procedures%20for%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20potassium%20analysis%20of%20plant%20material%20using%20a%20single%20digestion%201967) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thomas%2C%20R.L.%20Sheard%2C%20R.W.%20Moyer%2C%20JR%20Comparison%20of%20conventional%20and%20automated%20procedures%20for%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20potassium%20analysis%20of%20plant%20material%20using%20a%20single%20digestion%201967)

[^Tisserant_et+al_2013_a]: Tisserant E, Malbreil M, Kuo A, Kohler A, Symeonidi A, Balestrini R, Charron P, Duensing N, Frei dit Frey N, Gianinazzi-Pearson V et al. 2013. Genome of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the oldest plant symbiosis. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA 110: 20117– 20122. [[Tisserant_et+al_FreiFreyNGianinazzipearsonV_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Frei%20dit%20Frey%20N%2C%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%20V%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Frei%20dit%20Frey%20N%2C%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%20V%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20Malbreil%2C%20M.%20Kuo%2C%20A.%20Kohler%2C%20A.%20Frei%20dit%20Frey%20N%2C%20Gianinazzi-Pearson%20V%202013)

[^Toljander_et+al_2006_a]: Toljander J, Artursson V, Paul LR, Jansson JK, Finlay RD. 2006. Attachment of different soil bacteria to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal extraradical hyphae is determined by hyphal vitality and fungal species. FEMS Microbiology Letters 254: 34–40. [[Toljander_et+al_AttachmentDifferentSoilBacteriaArbuscular_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Toljander%2C%20J.%20Artursson%2C%20V.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Attachment%20of%20different%20soil%20bacteria%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20extraradical%20hyphae%20is%20determined%20by%20hyphal%20vitality%20and%20fungal%20species%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Toljander%2C%20J.%20Artursson%2C%20V.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Attachment%20of%20different%20soil%20bacteria%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20extraradical%20hyphae%20is%20determined%20by%20hyphal%20vitality%20and%20fungal%20species%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Toljander%2C%20J.%20Artursson%2C%20V.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Attachment%20of%20different%20soil%20bacteria%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungal%20extraradical%20hyphae%20is%20determined%20by%20hyphal%20vitality%20and%20fungal%20species%202006)

[^Toljander_et+al_2007_a]: Toljander JF, Lindahl BD, Paul LR, Elfstrand M, Finlay RD. 2007. Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelial exudates on soil bacterial growth and community structure. FEMS Microbiology Ecology 61: 295–304. [[Toljander_et+al_InfluenceArbuscularMycorrhizalMycelialExudates_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Toljander%2C%20J.F.%20Lindahl%2C%20B.D.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Elfstrand%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelial%20exudates%20on%20soil%20bacterial%20growth%20and%20community%20structure%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Toljander%2C%20J.F.%20Lindahl%2C%20B.D.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Elfstrand%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelial%20exudates%20on%20soil%20bacterial%20growth%20and%20community%20structure%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Toljander%2C%20J.F.%20Lindahl%2C%20B.D.%20Paul%2C%20L.R.%20Elfstrand%2C%20M.%20Influence%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20mycelial%20exudates%20on%20soil%20bacterial%20growth%20and%20community%20structure%202007)

[^Toro_et+al_1997_a]: Toro M, Azcon R, Barea J-M. 1997. Improvement of arbuscular mycorrhizal development by inoculation of soil with phosphate-solubilizing rhizobacteria to improve rock phosphate bioavailability (32P) and nutrient cycling. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 63: 4408–4412. [[Toro_et+al_ImprovementArbuscularMycorrhizalDevelopmentInoculation_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Toro%2C%20M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.-M.%20Improvement%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%20by%20inoculation%20of%20soil%20with%20phosphate-solubilizing%20rhizobacteria%20to%20improve%20rock%20phosphate%20bioavailability%20%2832P%29%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Toro%2C%20M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.-M.%20Improvement%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%20by%20inoculation%20of%20soil%20with%20phosphate-solubilizing%20rhizobacteria%20to%20improve%20rock%20phosphate%20bioavailability%20%2832P%29%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Toro%2C%20M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Barea%2C%20J.-M.%20Improvement%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20development%20by%20inoculation%20of%20soil%20with%20phosphate-solubilizing%20rhizobacteria%20to%20improve%20rock%20phosphate%20bioavailability%20%2832P%29%20and%20nutrient%20cycling%201997)

[^Torsvik_2002_a]: Torsvik V, Øvreas L. 2002. Microbial diversity and function in soil: from genes to ecosystems. Current Opinion in Microbiology 5: 240–245. [[Torsvik_MicrobialDiversityFunctionSoilFrom_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Torsvik%2C%20V.%20%C3%98vreas%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20function%20in%20soil%3A%20from%20genes%20to%20ecosystems%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Torsvik%2C%20V.%20%C3%98vreas%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20function%20in%20soil%3A%20from%20genes%20to%20ecosystems%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Torsvik%2C%20V.%20%C3%98vreas%2C%20L.%20Microbial%20diversity%20and%20function%20in%20soil%3A%20from%20genes%20to%20ecosystems%202002)

[^Turner_et+al_2002_a]: Turner BL, Paphazy MJ, Haygarth PM, Mckelvie ID. 2002. Inositol phosphates in the environment. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B: Biological Sciences 357: 449–469. [[Turner_et+al_InositolPhosphatesEnvironment_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Paphazy%2C%20M.J.%20Haygarth%2C%20P.M.%20Mckelvie%2C%20I.D.%20Inositol%20phosphates%20in%20the%20environment%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Paphazy%2C%20M.J.%20Haygarth%2C%20P.M.%20Mckelvie%2C%20I.D.%20Inositol%20phosphates%20in%20the%20environment%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Turner%2C%20B.L.%20Paphazy%2C%20M.J.%20Haygarth%2C%20P.M.%20Mckelvie%2C%20I.D.%20Inositol%20phosphates%20in%20the%20environment%202002)

[^Veresoglou_et+al_2011_a]: Veresoglou SD, Sen R, Mamolos AP, Veresoglou DS. 2011. Plant species identity and arbuscular mycorrhizal status moderate potential nitrification rates in nitrogen-limited grassland soils. Journal of Ecology 99: 1339–1349. [[Veresoglou_et+al_PlantSpeciesIdentityArbuscularMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Sen%2C%20R.%20Mamolos%2C%20A.P.%20Veresoglou%2C%20D.S.%20Plant%20species%20identity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20status%20moderate%20potential%20nitrification%20rates%20in%20nitrogen-limited%20grassland%20soils%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Sen%2C%20R.%20Mamolos%2C%20A.P.%20Veresoglou%2C%20D.S.%20Plant%20species%20identity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20status%20moderate%20potential%20nitrification%20rates%20in%20nitrogen-limited%20grassland%20soils%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Veresoglou%2C%20S.D.%20Sen%2C%20R.%20Mamolos%2C%20A.P.%20Veresoglou%2C%20D.S.%20Plant%20species%20identity%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20status%20moderate%20potential%20nitrification%20rates%20in%20nitrogen-limited%20grassland%20soils%202011)

[^Walder_et+al_2015_a]: Walder F, Brule D, Koegel S, Wiemken A, Boller T, Pierre-Emmanuel C. 2015. Plant phosphorus acquisition in a common mycorrhizal network: regulation of phosphate transporter genes of the Pht1 family in sorghum and flax. New Phytologist 205: 1632–1645. [[Walder_et+al_PlantPhosphorusAcquisitionCommonMycorrhizal_2015]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Walder%2C%20F.%20Brule%2C%20D.%20Koegel%2C%20S.%20Wiemken%2C%20A.%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%3A%20regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%202015) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Walder%2C%20F.%20Brule%2C%20D.%20Koegel%2C%20S.%20Wiemken%2C%20A.%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%3A%20regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%202015) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Walder%2C%20F.%20Brule%2C%20D.%20Koegel%2C%20S.%20Wiemken%2C%20A.%20Plant%20phosphorus%20acquisition%20in%20a%20common%20mycorrhizal%20network%3A%20regulation%20of%20phosphate%20transporter%20genes%20of%20the%20Pht1%20family%20in%20sorghum%20and%20flax%202015)

[^Walder_et+al_2012_a]: Walder F, Niemann H, Natarajan M, Lehmann MF, Boller T, Wiemken A. 2012. Mycorrhizal networks: common goods of plants shared under unequal terms of trade. Plant Physiology 159: 789–797. [[Walder_et+al_MycorrhizalNetworksCommonGoodsPlants_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Walder%2C%20F.%20Niemann%2C%20H.%20Natarajan%2C%20M.%20Lehmann%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20networks%3A%20common%20goods%20of%20plants%20shared%20under%20unequal%20terms%20of%20trade%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Walder%2C%20F.%20Niemann%2C%20H.%20Natarajan%2C%20M.%20Lehmann%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20networks%3A%20common%20goods%20of%20plants%20shared%20under%20unequal%20terms%20of%20trade%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Walder%2C%20F.%20Niemann%2C%20H.%20Natarajan%2C%20M.%20Lehmann%2C%20M.F.%20Mycorrhizal%20networks%3A%20common%20goods%20of%20plants%20shared%20under%20unequal%20terms%20of%20trade%202012)

[^West_et+al_2007_a]: West SA, Griffin AS, Gardner A. 2007. Evolutionary explanations for cooperation. Current Biology 17: 661–672. [[West_et+al_EvolutionaryExplanationsCooperation_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=West%2C%20S.A.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Gardner%2C%20A.%20Evolutionary%20explanations%20for%20cooperation%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=West%2C%20S.A.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Gardner%2C%20A.%20Evolutionary%20explanations%20for%20cooperation%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=West%2C%20S.A.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Gardner%2C%20A.%20Evolutionary%20explanations%20for%20cooperation%202007)

[^West_et+al_2002_a]: West SA, Pen I, Griffin AS. 2002. Cooperation and competition between relatives. Science 296: 72–75. [[West_et+al_CooperationCompetitionBetweenRelatives_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=West%2C%20S.A.%20Pen%2C%20I.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20between%20relatives%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=West%2C%20S.A.%20Pen%2C%20I.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20between%20relatives%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=West%2C%20S.A.%20Pen%2C%20I.%20Griffin%2C%20A.S.%20Cooperation%20and%20competition%20between%20relatives%202002)

[^Zhang_et+al_2014_a]: Zhang L, Ding XD, Chen SF, He XH, Zhang FS, Feng G. 2014a. Reducing carbon: phosphorus ratio can enhance microbial phytate-P mineralization and lessen competition with maize for phosphorus. Journal of Plant Interactions 9: 850–856. [[Zhang_et+al_ReducingCarbonPhosphorusRatioEnhance_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20Chen%2C%20S.F.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Reducing%20carbon%3A%20phosphorus%20ratio%20can%20enhance%20microbial%20phytate-P%20mineralization%20and%20lessen%20competition%20with%20maize%20for%20phosphorus%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20Chen%2C%20S.F.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Reducing%20carbon%3A%20phosphorus%20ratio%20can%20enhance%20microbial%20phytate-P%20mineralization%20and%20lessen%20competition%20with%20maize%20for%20phosphorus%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20Chen%2C%20S.F.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Reducing%20carbon%3A%20phosphorus%20ratio%20can%20enhance%20microbial%20phytate-P%20mineralization%20and%20lessen%20competition%20with%20maize%20for%20phosphorus%202014)

[^Zhang_et+al_2014_b]: Zhang L, Fan JQ, Ding XD, He XH, Zhang FS, Feng G. 2014b. Hyphosphere interactions between an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus and a phosphate solubilizing bacterium promote phytate mineralization in soil. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 74: 177–183. [[Zhang_et+al_HyphosphereInteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizal_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Fan%2C%20J.Q.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Hyphosphere%20interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate%20solubilizing%20bacterium%20promote%20phytate%20mineralization%20in%20soil%202014) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Fan%2C%20J.Q.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Hyphosphere%20interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate%20solubilizing%20bacterium%20promote%20phytate%20mineralization%20in%20soil%202014) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20L.%20Fan%2C%20J.Q.%20Ding%2C%20X.D.%20He%2C%20X.H.%20Hyphosphere%20interactions%20between%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20and%20a%20phosphate%20solubilizing%20bacterium%20promote%20phytate%20mineralization%20in%20soil%202014)

