[[Wall_InteractiouNsnderground_2007]]

# [InteractioU nsnderground]()

## [[Diana H. Wall]]; [[John C. Moore]]

### 2007

## Abstract
Whole assemblages of soil species and ==their interactions can influence a number of ecosystem belowground species may processes== (e.g., decomposition, ==net be necessary for coupling primary production==, and trace gas production; [^Setala_1991_a], the aboveground-

## Key concepts
#bacteria; #ecology; #claim/soil_organism; #arthropod; #biology; #virginia; #soil_biodiversity; #organic_matter; #finding/soil_biota; #synopsis; #species_richness

## Quote
> Soil habitats differconsiderablyin size and type of the soil particles; in the amount and flow of water and gases in soils; in the amountandtype of carbon, which is a base of the soil food chain; and in chemical factors that interact with the organisms


## Key points
- Recent scientific research on soil biodiversity is increasing our baseline cycle knowledge of the species richness ([^Lawton_et+al_1996_a]) and global dis- nary studies are focused on the spetribution (Brussaard et al 1997, Wall cies that are critical for the mainteand Virginia in press) of soil organ- nance of ecosystem processes
- Soil habitats differconsiderablyin size and type of the soil particles; in the amount and flow of water and gases in soils; in the amountandtype of carbon, which is a base of the soil food chain; and in chemical factors that interact with the organisms
- Percentageof global describedspecies that are found in soilc aModified from Wall and Virginia. bSpecies in litter and decaying logs are included in the estimate of soildwelling species. cBased on highest estimates in Wall and Virginia. dBacteria estimates do not include estimates of genetic diversity using molecular techniques. eThe majority of Dipluran species are found in soil ([^Maddison_1997_a]); the number of described soil-dwelling Diplura is assumed to be equal to the total number described. fSymphyla live in soil and litter (Scheller 1982b); the number of described soil-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described
- GChilopoda live in soil, leaf litter, rotting woods, and caves ([^Maddison_1997_a]); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to equal the total number of described species. hPauropoda live preferably in soils and woodland litter ([^Scheller_1982_a]); the number of described soil and litter species is assumed to be equal to the total number of described species. iDiplopoda are characteristic of the upper soil and litter horizons (Hoffman 1990); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described. jWe calculated the number of described species in soils based on McAlpine's estimate that, for the United States, 50% of Dipteran species are encountered in studies of soil biota ([^Mcalpine_1990_a])
- Are the key taxa for ecosystem processes those involved in mutalistic interactions? The examples of symbiotic and nonsymbiotic mutualistic interactions (Figure 3) that we have presented illustrate that in soils, these types of species-specific interactions between plants and soil organisms have profound impacts on ecosystem processes
- Aboveground species may be functionally linked to entire assemblages of belowground species, and whole assemblages of belowground species may be necessary for coupling the aboveground-belowground nutrient cycle

## Synopsis

### InteractioU nsnderground
Soil biodiversithyasreceivedconsiderable attention recently because of greater recognition that.
Whole assemblages of soil species and their interactions can influence a number of ecosystem belowground species may processes.
Recent scientific research on soil biodiversity is increasing the baseline cycle knowledge of the species richness ([^Lawton_et+al_1996_a]) and global dis- nary studies are focused on the spetribution (Brussaard et al 1997, Wall cies that are critical for the mainteand Virginia in press) of soil organ- nance of ecosystem processes.
An estimated 170,000 species of soil organisms have been identified (Wall and Virginia in press).
Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 DavidWalter,personal communication Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 [^Ravlin_1996_a] [^Maddison_1997_a] Scheller1982b Brussaardet al. 1997 Bignelland Eggleton1998, David Bignell,personal communication Brussaardet al. 1997 Brusca1997

### Percentageof global describedspecies that are found in soilc
AModified from Wall and Virginia. bSpecies in litter and decaying logs are included in the estimate of soildwelling species. cBased on highest estimates in Wall and Virginia. dBacteria estimates do not include estimates of genetic diversity using molecular techniques. eThe majority of Dipluran species are found in soil ([^Maddison_1997_a]); the number of described soil-dwelling Diplura is assumed to be equal to the total number described. fSymphyla live in soil and litter (Scheller 1982b); the number of described soil-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described.
FSymphyla live in soil and litter (Scheller 1982b); the number of described soil-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described.
Measurements of the changes in biomass, abundance, and frequency of these functional groups were compared to the rate of change in an ecosystem process to deduce the role of the group in the ecosystem
These kinds of experiments, together with direct observation, field manipulation, microcosm, stable isotope, and molecular techniques, have shown that the functional groups of organisms in soils-from microbes, tardigrades, and rotifers to the larger macroinvertebrates and vertebratescontribute substantially to essential ecosystem services, such as soil fertility, prevention of erosion, decay and cycling of organic matter, breakdown of hazardous wastes, biological control of agricultural and human pathogens, cleansing of water, and composition of the atmosphere ([^Daily_1997_a]).
Processes has been to separate the activities of the individual species within a functional group and to determine how species interact to perform the ecosystem function

### Nutrient cycling and soil biodiversity
Nutrient cycling involves the transformation of molecules from organic to inorganic forms through processes mediated by both organisms and the nonliving portion of the soil environment.
As litter decomposes it undergoes a form of facultative succession by microbes and invertebrates.
Once arthropods colonize the litter, decomposition accelerates due to a combination of comminution and the enhancing effects of microfauna on the growth rates of the microbes.
The rate at which a vertebrate carcass decomposes in a tropical forest can be linked to the succession of the 118 insect taxa involved
This situation provides a tool used in forensic medicine ([^Richards_1997_a]); that is, the successional stage of insects present enables the time from death to be calculated.
A predator's suppression of an herbivore and the subsequent decrease in herbivory experienced by plants could be construed as both an indirect effect and a form of nonsymbiotic mutualism

### Mutualisms within the rhizosphere
Much like the soil litter layer, the plant root is an important region of nutrient dynamics.
The plan was for the shale to be mined, superheated to extract the oil, and spread over the landscape or in large human-made mountains
Restoration of such damaged landscapes is focused on re-creating the vegetative diversity, but in several studies that have mimicked the effects of mine tailings and studied restoration (Reeves et al 1978, [^Biondini_et+al_1985_a], [^Biondini_et+al_1985_b], [^Metzger_et+al_1986_a]) the focus was on re-creating the functioning of and the linkages between soil biodiversity and the plant communities.
After 1 year, the fungal densities remained severely depressed in the fumigated and denuded plots and, to a lesser extent, in the nonfumigated and denuded plots, as compared to undisturbed native plots
This pattern was even more pronounced for the mycorrhizal fungi.
1988b). (a) The influenceof mycorrhizalinfection on the abovea productivity of many of the shrubs in the nonfumigated plots was comground production of

### AA A
Unlike native Nonsymbiotic mutualisms are nu- sphere form distinct assemblages of Hawaiian plant nitrogen fixers (Aca- merous in soil but less obvious than species that operate as pathways to cia koa and Sophora chrysophylla), symbiotic mutualisms.
In the process rates than fungi and their consumers factors interact to make M. faya well of using these carbon sources, the (Coleman et al 1983, Moore and de adapted to colonize recent lava flows, microbes use nitrogen in the soil Ruiter 1997).
A otic rhizobia and mycorrhizae, as well and unique to each site were grown common result of conventional agri- as with nonsymbiotic species, such as on media prepared from pine and culture has been to disrupt this cycle nitrogen-fixing bacteria (Azospirillum grass extracts ([^Lipari_1997_a]).
Examplesof symbioticand nonsymbioticsoil mutualisms.(a) Symbiotic mutualistsincludemycorrhizalfungi,Frankia,and rhizobia.(b) Somenonsymbiotic mutualistscontrolrhizospherenutrientavailability.(c)Othernonsymbioticmutualists formconsortiathatcontroldecompositionandnutrientavailability.Ineachcase,plants provide soil organisms with carbon, whereas soil organisms provide plants with nitrogen,phosphorus,and otherlimitingnutrients.The plus and minussignsreferto positiveandnegativeinteractioneffects,respectively.Thesolid linesrepresenttrophic interactions,or directmass-nutrienttransfers,as in the case of plantsand litter.The dashedlinesrepresentnutrienttransfersthroughsoils,resemblingthe "indirecteffects" cited in the literature

### Conclusions
Are the key taxa for ecosystem processes those involved in mutalistic interactions? The examples of symbiotic and nonsymbiotic mutualistic interactions (Figure 3) that the authors have presented illustrate that in soils, these types of species-specific interactions between plants and soil organisms have profound impacts on ecosystem processes.
1989), and agriculture (Moore and de Ruiter 1991, [^Freckman_1993_a]) are a only few examples of disturbances that affect species diversity ([^Lawton_et+al_1996_a]) and the composition of functional groups and the rate of ecosystem processes.
It is because plants and soil organisms have coevolved that the future management of global soils must include knowledge of species and functional diversity

### Findings
GChilopoda live in soil, leaf litter, rotting woods, and caves ([^Maddison_1997_a]); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to equal the total number of described species. hPauropoda live preferably in soils and woodland litter ([^Scheller_1982_a]); the number of described soil and litter species is assumed to be equal to the total number of described species. iDiplopoda are characteristic of the upper soil and litter horizons (Hoffman 1990); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described. jWe calculated the number of described species in soils based on McAlpine's estimate that, for the United States, 50% of Dipteran species are encountered in studies of soil biota ([^Mcalpine_1990_a]).
GChilopoda live in soil, leaf litter, rotting woods, and caves ([^Maddison_1997_a]); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to equal the total number of described species.
HPauropoda live preferably in soils and woodland litter ([^Scheller_1982_a]); the number of described soil and litter species is assumed to be equal to the total number of described species.
IDiplopoda are characteristic of the upper soil and litter horizons (Hoffman 1990); the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described.
JWe calculated the number of described species in soils based on McAlpine's estimate that, for the United States, 50% of Dipteran species are encountered in studies of soil biota ([^Mcalpine_1990_a]).
For example, 17% of the fixed carbon is lost via exudation ([^Milchunas_1992_a])

### References cited
Ecological Interactions in Soils: Plants, Microbes, and Animals.
Soil nematode diversity: Species coexistence and ecosystem function.
Linking biodiversity and ecosystem functioning of soils and sediments.
Interactions of bacteria, fungi, and their nematode grazers: Effects on nutrient cycling and plant growth.
Carbon flux and diversity of nematodes and termites in Cameroon forest soils.
Effects of changes in biodiversity on ecosystem function in tropical forests.
The role of bacterivorous and fungivorous nematodes in cellulose and chitin decomposition in the context of a root/rhizosphere soil conceptual model.
The world beneath the feet: Soil biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.
Impacts of disturbance on detritus food webs in agro-ecosystems of contrasting tillage and weed management practices.


## Study subjects

### 170000 species
- His research. ==An estimated 170,000 species of soil organisms have been identified (Wall and Virginia in press)==. Table 1 shows the percentage of the described species globally that have representafocuseson soil food webs andlinkagesto tives in soils; for some groups, the ecosystem processes. ? 1999 American only habitat is the soil environment

### 374 species
- Soil ecosystemsvaryconsiderablyin species richness (Brussaard et al 1997). ==For example, nematode diversity ranges from at least 374 species in the soils of a Cameroontropical forest (Lawton et al 1998) to threespecies,all endemic,in the soils of the AntarcticDry Valleys (Freckman and Virginia 1991)==. Global biogeographicaldistributionsof species are better known for the larger

## Findings
- GChilopoda live in soil, leaf litter, rotting woods, and caves ([^Maddison_1997_a]); thus, the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to equal the total number of described species. hPauropoda live preferably in soils and woodland litter ([^Scheller_1982_a]); thus, the number of described soil and litter species is assumed to be equal to the total number of described species. iDiplopoda are characteristic of the upper soil and litter horizons (Hoffman 1990); thus, the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described. jWe calculated the number of described species in soils based on McAlpine's estimate that, for the United States, 50% of Dipteran species are encountered in studies of soil biota ([^Mcalpine_1990_a])
- In grasses, for example, 17% of the fixed carbon is lost via exudation ([^Milchunas_1992_a])

## Contributions
- Are the key taxa for ecosystem processes those involved in mutalistic interactions? The examples of symbiotic and nonsymbiotic mutualistic interactions (Figure 3) that we have presented illustrate that in soils, these types of species-specific interactions between plants and soil organisms have profound impacts on ecosystem processes. Aboveground species may be functionally linked to entire assemblages of belowground species, and whole assemblages of belowground species may be necessary for coupling the aboveground-belowground nutrient cycle. The specificity of many of these mutualistic interactions indicates that even species within a functional group may not be interchangeable with the same effect. Consequently, much of the vast belowground diversity may be necessary to maintain the ecosystem structure and function we see today.<br/><br/>Although the identities of the majority of soil organisms are not known, disturbances to these species-specific mutalistic interactions alter species diversity, with effects at the ecosystem level. Pollution, including the mine shale example discussed earlier in the article, desertification (Freckman and Virginia


## References
[^Akimovandhattori_1997_a]: AkimovandHattori 1996, Brussaardet al. 1997 [[Akimovandhattori_Brussaardet_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=1996%2C%20AkimovandHattori%20Brussaardet%20al%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=1996%2C%20AkimovandHattori%20Brussaardet%20al%201997) 

[^Al_1997_a]: Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 DavidWalter,personal communication Brussaardet al. 1997 Brussaardet al. 1997 Ravlin 1996 Maddison 1997 Scheller1982b Brussaardet al. 1997 Bignelland Eggleton1998, David Bignell,personal communication Brussaardet al. 1997 Brusca1997 [[Al_DavidwalterPersonalCommunicationBrussaardet_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=al%2C%20Brussaardet%20DavidWalter%2C%20personal%20communication%20Brussaardet%20al%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=al%2C%20Brussaardet%20DavidWalter%2C%20personal%20communication%20Brussaardet%20al%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=al%2C%20Brussaardet%20DavidWalter%2C%20personal%20communication%20Brussaardet%20al%201997)

[^Hoffman_1982_a]: Hoffman 1982 Scheller1982a Hoffman 1990 Brussaardet al. 1997 McAlpine 1990 [[Hoffman_Scheller1982aHoffman1990Brussaardet_1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoffman%201982%20Scheller1982a%20Hoffman%201990%20Brussaardet%20al%201997%20McAlpine%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoffman%201982%20Scheller1982a%20Hoffman%201990%20Brussaardet%20al%201997%20McAlpine%201990) 

[^aModified_1997_a]: aModified from Wall and Virginia (in press). bSpecies in litter and decaying logs are included in the estimate of soildwelling species. cBased on highest estimates in Wall and Virginia (in press). dBacteria estimates do not include estimates of genetic diversity using molecular techniques. eThe majority of Dipluran species are found in soil (Maddison 1997); thus, the number of described soil-dwelling Diplura is assumed to be equal to the total number described. fSymphyla live in soil and litter (Scheller 1982b); thus, the number of described soil-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described. [[aModified_AmodifiedFromWallVirginia_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=aModified%20from%20Wall%20and%20Virginia%20in%20press%20bSpecies%20in%20litter%20and%20decaying%20logs%20are%20included%20in%20the%20estimate%20of%20soildwelling%20species%20cBased%20on%20highest%20estimates%20in%20Wall%20and%20Virginia%20in%20press%20dBacteria%20estimates%20do%20not%20include%20estimates%20of%20genetic%20diversity%20using%20molecular%20techniques%20eThe%20majority%20of%20Dipluran%20species%20are%20found%20in%20soil%20Maddison%201997%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soildwelling%20Diplura%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described%20fSymphyla%20live%20in%20soil%20and%20litter%20Scheller%201982b%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soildwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=aModified%20from%20Wall%20and%20Virginia%20in%20press%20bSpecies%20in%20litter%20and%20decaying%20logs%20are%20included%20in%20the%20estimate%20of%20soildwelling%20species%20cBased%20on%20highest%20estimates%20in%20Wall%20and%20Virginia%20in%20press%20dBacteria%20estimates%20do%20not%20include%20estimates%20of%20genetic%20diversity%20using%20molecular%20techniques%20eThe%20majority%20of%20Dipluran%20species%20are%20found%20in%20soil%20Maddison%201997%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soildwelling%20Diplura%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described%20fSymphyla%20live%20in%20soil%20and%20litter%20Scheller%201982b%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soildwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described) 

[^gChilopoda_1990_a]: gChilopoda live in soil, leaf litter, rotting woods, and caves (Maddison 1997); thus, the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to equal the total number of described species. hPauropoda live preferably in soils and woodland litter (Scheller 1982a); thus, the number of described soil and litter species is assumed to be equal to the total number of described species. iDiplopoda are characteristic of the upper soil and litter horizons (Hoffman 1990); thus, the number of described soil- and litter-dwelling species is assumed to be equal to the total number described. jWe calculated the number of described species in soils based on McAlpine's estimate that, for the United States, 50% of Dipteran species are encountered in studies of soil biota (McAlpine 1990). [[gChilopoda_GchilopodaLiveSoilLeafLitter_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=gChilopoda%20live%20in%20soil%20leaf%20litter%20rotting%20woods%20and%20caves%20Maddison%201997%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litterdwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20equal%20the%20total%20number%20of%20described%20species%20hPauropoda%20live%20preferably%20in%20soils%20and%20woodland%20litter%20Scheller%201982a%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litter%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20of%20described%20species%20iDiplopoda%20are%20characteristic%20of%20the%20upper%20soil%20and%20litter%20horizons%20Hoffman%201990%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litterdwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described%20jWe%20calculated%20the%20number%20of%20described%20species%20in%20soils%20based%20on%20McAlpines%20estimate%20that%20for%20the%20United%20States%2050%20of%20Dipteran%20species%20are%20encountered%20in%20studies%20of%20soil%20biota%20McAlpine%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=gChilopoda%20live%20in%20soil%20leaf%20litter%20rotting%20woods%20and%20caves%20Maddison%201997%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litterdwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20equal%20the%20total%20number%20of%20described%20species%20hPauropoda%20live%20preferably%20in%20soils%20and%20woodland%20litter%20Scheller%201982a%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litter%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20of%20described%20species%20iDiplopoda%20are%20characteristic%20of%20the%20upper%20soil%20and%20litter%20horizons%20Hoffman%201990%20thus%20the%20number%20of%20described%20soil%20and%20litterdwelling%20species%20is%20assumed%20to%20be%20equal%20to%20the%20total%20number%20described%20jWe%20calculated%20the%20number%20of%20described%20species%20in%20soils%20based%20on%20McAlpines%20estimate%20that%20for%20the%20United%20States%2050%20of%20Dipteran%20species%20are%20encountered%20in%20studies%20of%20soil%20biota%20McAlpine%201990) 

[^Ecosystem_1967_b]: Ecosystem scientists have historically grouped species of similar morphologies and have used knowledge of a few species in a group to classify that group's role in ecosystems. For example, all bacteria that produce methane, and all nematodes whose mouthparts are morphologically similar, have been grouped into "functional groups" (Root 1967, Moore et al. 1988a, Hawkins and [[Ecosystem_EcosystemScientistsHaveHistoricallyGrouped_1967]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ecosystem%20scientists%20have%20historically%20grouped%20species%20of%20similar%20morphologies%20and%20have%20used%20knowledge%20of%20a%20few%20species%20in%20a%20group%20to%20classify%20that%20groups%20role%20in%20ecosystems%20For%20example%20all%20bacteria%20that%20produce%20methane%20and%20all%20nematodes%20whose%20mouthparts%20are%20morphologically%20similar%20have%20been%20grouped%20into%20functional%20groups%20Root%201967%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20Hawkins%20and) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ecosystem%20scientists%20have%20historically%20grouped%20species%20of%20similar%20morphologies%20and%20have%20used%20knowledge%20of%20a%20few%20species%20in%20a%20group%20to%20classify%20that%20groups%20role%20in%20ecosystems%20For%20example%20all%20bacteria%20that%20produce%20methane%20and%20all%20nematodes%20whose%20mouthparts%20are%20morphologically%20similar%20have%20been%20grouped%20into%20functional%20groups%20Root%201967%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20Hawkins%20and) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ecosystem%20scientists%20have%20historically%20grouped%20species%20of%20similar%20morphologies%20and%20have%20used%20knowledge%20of%20a%20few%20species%20in%20a%20group%20to%20classify%20that%20groups%20role%20in%20ecosystems%20For%20example%20all%20bacteria%20that%20produce%20methane%20and%20all%20nematodes%20whose%20mouthparts%20are%20morphologically%20similar%20have%20been%20grouped%20into%20functional%20groups%20Root%201967%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20Hawkins%20and)

[^Macmahon_1993_a]: MacMahon 1989, Yeates et al. 1993). Measurements of the changes in biomass, abundance, and frequency of these functional groups were then compared to the rate of change in an ecosystem process (such as the loss of a known amount of organic matter during decomposition) to deduce the role of the group in the ecosystem. These kinds of experiments, together with direct observation, field manipulation, microcosm, stable isotope, and molecular techniques, have shown that the functional groups of organisms in soils-from microbes, tardigrades, and rotifers to the larger macroinvertebrates and vertebratescontribute substantially to essential ecosystem services, such as soil fertility, prevention of erosion, decay and cycling of organic matter, breakdown of hazardous wastes, biological control of agricultural and human pathogens, cleansing of water, and composition of the atmosphere (Daily 1997). However, a major challenge to identifying the importance of individual species for ecosystem [[Macmahon_MeasurementsChangesBiomassAbundanceFrequency_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=MacMahon%201989%2C%20Yeates%20Measurements%20of%20the%20changes%20in%20biomass%2C%20abundance%2C%20and%20frequency%20of%20these%20functional%20groups%20were%20then%20compared%20to%20the%20rate%20of%20change%20in%20an%20ecosystem%20process%20%28such%20as%20the%20loss%20of%20a%20known%20amount%20of%20organic%20matter%20during%20decomposition%29%20to%20deduce%20the%20role%20of%20the%20group%20in%20the%20ecosystem.%20These%20kinds%20of%20experiments%2C%20together%20with%20direct%20observation%2C%20field%20manipulation%2C%20microcosm%2C%20stable%20isotope%2C%20and%20molecular%20techniques%2C%20have%20shown%20that%20the%20functional%20groups%20of%20organisms%20in%20soils-from%20microbes%2C%20tardigrades%2C%20and%20rotifers%20to%20the%20larger%20macroinvertebrates%20and%20vertebratescontribute%20substantially%20to%20essential%20ecosystem%20services%2C%20such%20as%20soil%20fertility%2C%20prevention%20of%20erosion%2C%20decay%20and%20cycling%20of%20organic%20matter%2C%20breakdown%20of%20hazardous%20wastes%2C%20biological%20control%20of%20agricultural%20and%20human%20pathogens%2C%20cleansing%20of%20water%2C%20and%20composition%20of%20the%20atmosphere%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=MacMahon%201989%2C%20Yeates%20Measurements%20of%20the%20changes%20in%20biomass%2C%20abundance%2C%20and%20frequency%20of%20these%20functional%20groups%20were%20then%20compared%20to%20the%20rate%20of%20change%20in%20an%20ecosystem%20process%20%28such%20as%20the%20loss%20of%20a%20known%20amount%20of%20organic%20matter%20during%20decomposition%29%20to%20deduce%20the%20role%20of%20the%20group%20in%20the%20ecosystem.%20These%20kinds%20of%20experiments%2C%20together%20with%20direct%20observation%2C%20field%20manipulation%2C%20microcosm%2C%20stable%20isotope%2C%20and%20molecular%20techniques%2C%20have%20shown%20that%20the%20functional%20groups%20of%20organisms%20in%20soils-from%20microbes%2C%20tardigrades%2C%20and%20rotifers%20to%20the%20larger%20macroinvertebrates%20and%20vertebratescontribute%20substantially%20to%20essential%20ecosystem%20services%2C%20such%20as%20soil%20fertility%2C%20prevention%20of%20erosion%2C%20decay%20and%20cycling%20of%20organic%20matter%2C%20breakdown%20of%20hazardous%20wastes%2C%20biological%20control%20of%20agricultural%20and%20human%20pathogens%2C%20cleansing%20of%20water%2C%20and%20composition%20of%20the%20atmosphere%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=MacMahon%201989%2C%20Yeates%20Measurements%20of%20the%20changes%20in%20biomass%2C%20abundance%2C%20and%20frequency%20of%20these%20functional%20groups%20were%20then%20compared%20to%20the%20rate%20of%20change%20in%20an%20ecosystem%20process%20%28such%20as%20the%20loss%20of%20a%20known%20amount%20of%20organic%20matter%20during%20decomposition%29%20to%20deduce%20the%20role%20of%20the%20group%20in%20the%20ecosystem.%20These%20kinds%20of%20experiments%2C%20together%20with%20direct%20observation%2C%20field%20manipulation%2C%20microcosm%2C%20stable%20isotope%2C%20and%20molecular%20techniques%2C%20have%20shown%20that%20the%20functional%20groups%20of%20organisms%20in%20soils-from%20microbes%2C%20tardigrades%2C%20and%20rotifers%20to%20the%20larger%20macroinvertebrates%20and%20vertebratescontribute%20substantially%20to%20essential%20ecosystem%20services%2C%20such%20as%20soil%20fertility%2C%20prevention%20of%20erosion%2C%20decay%20and%20cycling%20of%20organic%20matter%2C%20breakdown%20of%20hazardous%20wastes%2C%20biological%20control%20of%20agricultural%20and%20human%20pathogens%2C%20cleansing%20of%20water%2C%20and%20composition%20of%20the%20atmosphere%201993)

[^Bioscience_0000_a]: BioScience Vol. 49 No. 2 [[Bioscience__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=BioScience%20Vol%2049%20No%202) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=BioScience%20Vol%2049%20No%202) 

[^The_1984_a]: The rate at which detritus decomposes depends on temperature and moisture, on the type (quality) and quantity of substrate, and on the organisms that are present. Temperature and moisture affect decomposition rates through their influence on soil organisms. Warmer and wetter climates promote decomposition, whereas colder and drier conditions inhibit decomposition. If key taxa are excluded from or added to litter, the decomposition of plant material may be altered (Butcher et al. 1971, Seastedt 1984, Moore 1988). For example, as litter decomposes it undergoes a form of facultative succession (sensu Connell and [[The_RateWhichDetritusDecomposesDepends_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=The%20rate%20at%20which%20detritus%20decomposes%20depends%20on%20temperature%20and%20moisture%20on%20the%20type%20quality%20and%20quantity%20of%20substrate%20and%20on%20the%20organisms%20that%20are%20present%20Temperature%20and%20moisture%20affect%20decomposition%20rates%20through%20their%20influence%20on%20soil%20organisms%20Warmer%20and%20wetter%20climates%20promote%20decomposition%20whereas%20colder%20and%20drier%20conditions%20inhibit%20decomposition%20If%20key%20taxa%20are%20excluded%20from%20or%20added%20to%20litter%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20material%20may%20be%20altered%20Butcher%20et%20al%201971%20Seastedt%201984%20Moore%201988%20For%20example%20as%20litter%20decomposes%20it%20undergoes%20a%20form%20of%20facultative%20succession%20sensu%20Connell%20and) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=The%20rate%20at%20which%20detritus%20decomposes%20depends%20on%20temperature%20and%20moisture%20on%20the%20type%20quality%20and%20quantity%20of%20substrate%20and%20on%20the%20organisms%20that%20are%20present%20Temperature%20and%20moisture%20affect%20decomposition%20rates%20through%20their%20influence%20on%20soil%20organisms%20Warmer%20and%20wetter%20climates%20promote%20decomposition%20whereas%20colder%20and%20drier%20conditions%20inhibit%20decomposition%20If%20key%20taxa%20are%20excluded%20from%20or%20added%20to%20litter%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20material%20may%20be%20altered%20Butcher%20et%20al%201971%20Seastedt%201984%20Moore%201988%20For%20example%20as%20litter%20decomposes%20it%20undergoes%20a%20form%20of%20facultative%20succession%20sensu%20Connell%20and) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=The%20rate%20at%20which%20detritus%20decomposes%20depends%20on%20temperature%20and%20moisture%20on%20the%20type%20quality%20and%20quantity%20of%20substrate%20and%20on%20the%20organisms%20that%20are%20present%20Temperature%20and%20moisture%20affect%20decomposition%20rates%20through%20their%20influence%20on%20soil%20organisms%20Warmer%20and%20wetter%20climates%20promote%20decomposition%20whereas%20colder%20and%20drier%20conditions%20inhibit%20decomposition%20If%20key%20taxa%20are%20excluded%20from%20or%20added%20to%20litter%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20material%20may%20be%20altered%20Butcher%20et%20al%201971%20Seastedt%201984%20Moore%201988%20For%20example%20as%20litter%20decomposes%20it%20undergoes%20a%20form%20of%20facultative%20succession%20sensu%20Connell%20and)

[^Slatyer_1995_a]: Slatyer 1977, Wardle et al. 1995) by microbes and invertebrates. Bacteria and fungi colonize the litter and modify it in ways that make it more palatable to invertebrates such as arthropods (Anderson 1973, Grant 1976, Ettema 1998, Covich et al. [[Slatyer_MicrobesInvertebratesBacteriaFungiColonize_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Slatyer%201977%2C%20Wardle%20by%20microbes%20and%20invertebrates.%20Bacteria%20and%20fungi%20colonize%20the%20litter%20and%20modify%20it%20in%20ways%20that%20make%20it%20more%20palatable%20to%20invertebrates%20such%20as%20arthropods%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Slatyer%201977%2C%20Wardle%20by%20microbes%20and%20invertebrates.%20Bacteria%20and%20fungi%20colonize%20the%20litter%20and%20modify%20it%20in%20ways%20that%20make%20it%20more%20palatable%20to%20invertebrates%20such%20as%20arthropods%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Slatyer%201977%2C%20Wardle%20by%20microbes%20and%20invertebrates.%20Bacteria%20and%20fungi%20colonize%20the%20litter%20and%20modify%20it%20in%20ways%20that%20make%20it%20more%20palatable%20to%20invertebrates%20such%20as%20arthropods%201995)

[^)._1999_c]: 1999). Once arthropods colonize the litter, decomposition accelerates due to a combination of comminution and the enhancing effects of microfauna (e.g., microarthropods, nematodes, and protozoa) on the growth rates of the microbes. [[)._OnceArthropodsColonizeLitterDecomposition_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Once%20arthropods%20colonize%20the%20litter%20decomposition%20accelerates%20due%20to%20a%20combination%20of%20comminution%20and%20the%20enhancing%20effects%20of%20microfauna%20eg%20microarthropods%20nematodes%20and%20protozoa%20on%20the%20growth%20rates%20of%20the%20microbes) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Once%20arthropods%20colonize%20the%20litter%20decomposition%20accelerates%20due%20to%20a%20combination%20of%20comminution%20and%20the%20enhancing%20effects%20of%20microfauna%20eg%20microarthropods%20nematodes%20and%20protozoa%20on%20the%20growth%20rates%20of%20the%20microbes) 

[^An_1984_b]: An elegant illustration of these processes and the importance of species-specific life history traits and behavior on community organization and ecosystem processes comes from Newell's (1984a, 1984b) studies of the litter layer of Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis). The site in the United Kingdom that she investigated was dominated by two litter-decomposing basidiomycetes-the slow-growing Mycena galopus and the rapid-growing Marasmius androsaceus-and by the fungal-feeding collembolan Onychiurus latus, a microarthropod. The collembolan preferentially grazed the fast-growing M. androsaceus, thus shifting the balance from M. androsaceus to M. galopus. At the same time, the rate of decomposition of spruce litter declined. [[An_ElegantIllustrationTheseProcessesImportance_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=An%20elegant%20illustration%20of%20these%20processes%20and%20the%20importance%20of%20speciesspecific%20life%20history%20traits%20and%20behavior%20on%20community%20organization%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%20comes%20from%20Newells%201984a%201984b%20studies%20of%20the%20litter%20layer%20of%20Sitka%20spruce%20Picea%20sitchensis%20The%20site%20in%20the%20United%20Kingdom%20that%20she%20investigated%20was%20dominated%20by%20two%20litterdecomposing%20basidiomycetesthe%20slowgrowing%20Mycena%20galopus%20and%20the%20rapidgrowing%20Marasmius%20androsaceusand%20by%20the%20fungalfeeding%20collembolan%20Onychiurus%20latus%20a%20microarthropod%20The%20collembolan%20preferentially%20grazed%20the%20fastgrowing%20M%20androsaceus%20thus%20shifting%20the%20balance%20from%20M%20androsaceus%20to%20M%20galopus%20At%20the%20same%20time%20the%20rate%20of%20decomposition%20of%20spruce%20litter%20declined) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=An%20elegant%20illustration%20of%20these%20processes%20and%20the%20importance%20of%20speciesspecific%20life%20history%20traits%20and%20behavior%20on%20community%20organization%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%20comes%20from%20Newells%201984a%201984b%20studies%20of%20the%20litter%20layer%20of%20Sitka%20spruce%20Picea%20sitchensis%20The%20site%20in%20the%20United%20Kingdom%20that%20she%20investigated%20was%20dominated%20by%20two%20litterdecomposing%20basidiomycetesthe%20slowgrowing%20Mycena%20galopus%20and%20the%20rapidgrowing%20Marasmius%20androsaceusand%20by%20the%20fungalfeeding%20collembolan%20Onychiurus%20latus%20a%20microarthropod%20The%20collembolan%20preferentially%20grazed%20the%20fastgrowing%20M%20androsaceus%20thus%20shifting%20the%20balance%20from%20M%20androsaceus%20to%20M%20galopus%20At%20the%20same%20time%20the%20rate%20of%20decomposition%20of%20spruce%20litter%20declined) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=An%20elegant%20illustration%20of%20these%20processes%20and%20the%20importance%20of%20speciesspecific%20life%20history%20traits%20and%20behavior%20on%20community%20organization%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%20comes%20from%20Newells%201984a%201984b%20studies%20of%20the%20litter%20layer%20of%20Sitka%20spruce%20Picea%20sitchensis%20The%20site%20in%20the%20United%20Kingdom%20that%20she%20investigated%20was%20dominated%20by%20two%20litterdecomposing%20basidiomycetesthe%20slowgrowing%20Mycena%20galopus%20and%20the%20rapidgrowing%20Marasmius%20androsaceusand%20by%20the%20fungalfeeding%20collembolan%20Onychiurus%20latus%20a%20microarthropod%20The%20collembolan%20preferentially%20grazed%20the%20fastgrowing%20M%20androsaceus%20thus%20shifting%20the%20balance%20from%20M%20androsaceus%20to%20M%20galopus%20At%20the%20same%20time%20the%20rate%20of%20decomposition%20of%20spruce%20litter%20declined)

[^These_1997_d]: These kinds of successional processes are not unique to the decomposition of plant litter. For example, the rate at which a vertebrate carcass decomposes in a tropical forest can be linked to the succession of the 118 insect taxa involved. This situation provides a tool used in forensic medicine (Richards and Goff 1997); that is, the successional stage of insects present enables the time from death to be calculated. [[These_TheseKindsSuccessionalProcessesUnique_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=These%20kinds%20of%20successional%20processes%20are%20not%20unique%20to%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20litter%20For%20example%20the%20rate%20at%20which%20a%20vertebrate%20carcass%20decomposes%20in%20a%20tropical%20forest%20can%20be%20linked%20to%20the%20succession%20of%20the%20118%20insect%20taxa%20involved%20This%20situation%20provides%20a%20tool%20used%20in%20forensic%20medicine%20Richards%20and%20Goff%201997%20that%20is%20the%20successional%20stage%20of%20insects%20present%20enables%20the%20time%20from%20death%20to%20be%20calculated) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=These%20kinds%20of%20successional%20processes%20are%20not%20unique%20to%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20litter%20For%20example%20the%20rate%20at%20which%20a%20vertebrate%20carcass%20decomposes%20in%20a%20tropical%20forest%20can%20be%20linked%20to%20the%20succession%20of%20the%20118%20insect%20taxa%20involved%20This%20situation%20provides%20a%20tool%20used%20in%20forensic%20medicine%20Richards%20and%20Goff%201997%20that%20is%20the%20successional%20stage%20of%20insects%20present%20enables%20the%20time%20from%20death%20to%20be%20calculated) 

[^There_1994_a]: There are strong parallels between the decomposer communities of soils and the microbial loop of marine habitats and freshwater lakes (Coleman 1994). A key difference between the terrestrial and aquatic systems is the degree to which primary production and decomposition interact. In soils, spatial and temporal distances between primary production (substrate) and decomposition are much less than in aquatic systems (Wagener et al. 1998). As a result, in soils, plant-produced substrates and decomposers have coevolved specific associations, and nutrient dynamics areintimatelytied to the decomposition of plant litter and substrates produced by plant roots. The associations are best characterized as mutualistic interactions and reveal the importance of biodiversity for ecosystem functioning in soil. [[There_ThereStrongParallelsBetweenDecomposer_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=There%20are%20strong%20parallels%20between%20the%20decomposer%20communities%20of%20soils%20and%20the%20microbial%20loop%20of%20marine%20habitats%20and%20freshwater%20lakes%20Coleman%201994%20A%20key%20difference%20between%20the%20terrestrial%20and%20aquatic%20systems%20is%20the%20degree%20to%20which%20primary%20production%20and%20decomposition%20interact%20In%20soils%20spatial%20and%20temporal%20distances%20between%20primary%20production%20substrate%20and%20decomposition%20are%20much%20less%20than%20in%20aquatic%20systems%20Wagener%20et%20al%201998%20As%20a%20result%20in%20soils%20plantproduced%20substrates%20and%20decomposers%20have%20coevolved%20specific%20associations%20and%20nutrient%20dynamics%20areintimatelytied%20to%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20litter%20and%20substrates%20produced%20by%20plant%20roots%20The%20associations%20are%20best%20characterized%20as%20mutualistic%20interactions%20and%20reveal%20the%20importance%20of%20biodiversity%20for%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=There%20are%20strong%20parallels%20between%20the%20decomposer%20communities%20of%20soils%20and%20the%20microbial%20loop%20of%20marine%20habitats%20and%20freshwater%20lakes%20Coleman%201994%20A%20key%20difference%20between%20the%20terrestrial%20and%20aquatic%20systems%20is%20the%20degree%20to%20which%20primary%20production%20and%20decomposition%20interact%20In%20soils%20spatial%20and%20temporal%20distances%20between%20primary%20production%20substrate%20and%20decomposition%20are%20much%20less%20than%20in%20aquatic%20systems%20Wagener%20et%20al%201998%20As%20a%20result%20in%20soils%20plantproduced%20substrates%20and%20decomposers%20have%20coevolved%20specific%20associations%20and%20nutrient%20dynamics%20areintimatelytied%20to%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20litter%20and%20substrates%20produced%20by%20plant%20roots%20The%20associations%20are%20best%20characterized%20as%20mutualistic%20interactions%20and%20reveal%20the%20importance%20of%20biodiversity%20for%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=There%20are%20strong%20parallels%20between%20the%20decomposer%20communities%20of%20soils%20and%20the%20microbial%20loop%20of%20marine%20habitats%20and%20freshwater%20lakes%20Coleman%201994%20A%20key%20difference%20between%20the%20terrestrial%20and%20aquatic%20systems%20is%20the%20degree%20to%20which%20primary%20production%20and%20decomposition%20interact%20In%20soils%20spatial%20and%20temporal%20distances%20between%20primary%20production%20substrate%20and%20decomposition%20are%20much%20less%20than%20in%20aquatic%20systems%20Wagener%20et%20al%201998%20As%20a%20result%20in%20soils%20plantproduced%20substrates%20and%20decomposers%20have%20coevolved%20specific%20associations%20and%20nutrient%20dynamics%20areintimatelytied%20to%20the%20decomposition%20of%20plant%20litter%20and%20substrates%20produced%20by%20plant%20roots%20The%20associations%20are%20best%20characterized%20as%20mutualistic%20interactions%20and%20reveal%20the%20importance%20of%20biodiversity%20for%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil)

[^In_1966_a]: In contrast to soil ecology, traditional plant ecology focuses on the competitiveabilitiesof differentplant species. Communities are seen as being shaped by the adaptation of the plants to the region and by their abilitiesto securelimitingresources. Marine ecology has also focused on adaptation,competition, andpredation. For example, the classic studies of Connell(1961a, 1961b) andPaine (1966) illustrated how competition and predation interact to shape the diversity and distribution of marine algae and invertebrates. Likewise, much of the freshwater aquatic literature on the dual roles of the rate of primary production (bottom-up forces) and regulation by predators (top-down forces) has focused on predation and competition. Elegant experiments and models showing how these factors govern trophic structureswithin lakes and streams aretriumphsof modernecology(Carpenter et al. 1985, Power 1990, Wooton and Power 1993). [[In_ContrastSoilEcologyTraditionalPlant_1966]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=In%20contrast%20to%20soil%20ecology%20traditional%20plant%20ecology%20focuses%20on%20the%20competitiveabilitiesof%20differentplant%20species%20Communities%20are%20seen%20as%20being%20shaped%20by%20the%20adaptation%20of%20the%20plants%20to%20the%20region%20and%20by%20their%20abilitiesto%20securelimitingresources%20Marine%20ecology%20has%20also%20focused%20on%20adaptationcompetition%20andpredation%20For%20example%20the%20classic%20studies%20of%20Connell1961a%201961b%20andPaine%201966%20illustrated%20how%20competition%20and%20predation%20interact%20to%20shape%20the%20diversity%20and%20distribution%20of%20marine%20algae%20and%20invertebrates%20Likewise%20much%20of%20the%20freshwater%20aquatic%20literature%20on%20the%20dual%20roles%20of%20the%20rate%20of%20primary%20production%20bottomup%20forces%20and%20regulation%20by%20predators%20topdown%20forces%20has%20focused%20on%20predation%20and%20competition%20Elegant%20experiments%20and%20models%20showing%20how%20these%20factors%20govern%20trophic%20structureswithin%20lakes%20and%20streams%20aretriumphsof%20modernecologyCarpenter%20et%20al%201985%20Power%201990%20Wooton%20and%20Power%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=In%20contrast%20to%20soil%20ecology%20traditional%20plant%20ecology%20focuses%20on%20the%20competitiveabilitiesof%20differentplant%20species%20Communities%20are%20seen%20as%20being%20shaped%20by%20the%20adaptation%20of%20the%20plants%20to%20the%20region%20and%20by%20their%20abilitiesto%20securelimitingresources%20Marine%20ecology%20has%20also%20focused%20on%20adaptationcompetition%20andpredation%20For%20example%20the%20classic%20studies%20of%20Connell1961a%201961b%20andPaine%201966%20illustrated%20how%20competition%20and%20predation%20interact%20to%20shape%20the%20diversity%20and%20distribution%20of%20marine%20algae%20and%20invertebrates%20Likewise%20much%20of%20the%20freshwater%20aquatic%20literature%20on%20the%20dual%20roles%20of%20the%20rate%20of%20primary%20production%20bottomup%20forces%20and%20regulation%20by%20predators%20topdown%20forces%20has%20focused%20on%20predation%20and%20competition%20Elegant%20experiments%20and%20models%20showing%20how%20these%20factors%20govern%20trophic%20structureswithin%20lakes%20and%20streams%20aretriumphsof%20modernecologyCarpenter%20et%20al%201985%20Power%201990%20Wooton%20and%20Power%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=In%20contrast%20to%20soil%20ecology%20traditional%20plant%20ecology%20focuses%20on%20the%20competitiveabilitiesof%20differentplant%20species%20Communities%20are%20seen%20as%20being%20shaped%20by%20the%20adaptation%20of%20the%20plants%20to%20the%20region%20and%20by%20their%20abilitiesto%20securelimitingresources%20Marine%20ecology%20has%20also%20focused%20on%20adaptationcompetition%20andpredation%20For%20example%20the%20classic%20studies%20of%20Connell1961a%201961b%20andPaine%201966%20illustrated%20how%20competition%20and%20predation%20interact%20to%20shape%20the%20diversity%20and%20distribution%20of%20marine%20algae%20and%20invertebrates%20Likewise%20much%20of%20the%20freshwater%20aquatic%20literature%20on%20the%20dual%20roles%20of%20the%20rate%20of%20primary%20production%20bottomup%20forces%20and%20regulation%20by%20predators%20topdown%20forces%20has%20focused%20on%20predation%20and%20competition%20Elegant%20experiments%20and%20models%20showing%20how%20these%20factors%20govern%20trophic%20structureswithin%20lakes%20and%20streams%20aretriumphsof%20modernecologyCarpenter%20et%20al%201985%20Power%201990%20Wooton%20and%20Power%201993)

[^Studies_1982_a]: Studies of soil organisms do not dispute the roles of competition and predation in shaping soil communities, but they highlight the importance of mutualisms (i.e., interactionsbetweenspeciesthathavepositive effectson eachof theirgrowthrates). Two classesof mutualismshave been identifieds:ymbioticandnonsymbiotic (Boucher et al. 1982, Moore 1988, Price 1988). Symbiotic mutualisms involvean intimatephysiologicallink between the species. Nonsymbiotic mutualisms arise through interactions that may or may not involve physicalcontact. Simplemathematical models of symbiotic mutualisms indicate that the interactions are inherently unstable and should not persist (Pimm 1982). Yet symbiotic mutualisms are an integral part of terrestrialecosystems.The dominant plant species of every mature or climax terrestrial ecosystem are en- [[Studies_StudiesSoilOrganismsDisputeRoles_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Studies%20of%20soil%20organisms%20do%20not%20dispute%20the%20roles%20of%20competition%20and%20predation%20in%20shaping%20soil%20communities%20but%20they%20highlight%20the%20importance%20of%20mutualisms%20ie%20interactionsbetweenspeciesthathavepositive%20effectson%20eachof%20theirgrowthrates%20Two%20classesof%20mutualismshave%20been%20identifiedsymbioticandnonsymbiotic%20Boucher%20et%20al%201982%20Moore%201988%20Price%201988%20Symbiotic%20mutualisms%20involvean%20intimatephysiologicallink%20between%20the%20species%20Nonsymbiotic%20mutualisms%20arise%20through%20interactions%20that%20may%20or%20may%20not%20involve%20physicalcontact%20Simplemathematical%20models%20of%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20indicate%20that%20the%20interactions%20are%20inherently%20unstable%20and%20should%20not%20persist%20Pimm%201982%20Yet%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20are%20an%20integral%20part%20of%20terrestrialecosystemsThe%20dominant%20plant%20species%20of%20every%20mature%20or%20climax%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20are%20en) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Studies%20of%20soil%20organisms%20do%20not%20dispute%20the%20roles%20of%20competition%20and%20predation%20in%20shaping%20soil%20communities%20but%20they%20highlight%20the%20importance%20of%20mutualisms%20ie%20interactionsbetweenspeciesthathavepositive%20effectson%20eachof%20theirgrowthrates%20Two%20classesof%20mutualismshave%20been%20identifiedsymbioticandnonsymbiotic%20Boucher%20et%20al%201982%20Moore%201988%20Price%201988%20Symbiotic%20mutualisms%20involvean%20intimatephysiologicallink%20between%20the%20species%20Nonsymbiotic%20mutualisms%20arise%20through%20interactions%20that%20may%20or%20may%20not%20involve%20physicalcontact%20Simplemathematical%20models%20of%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20indicate%20that%20the%20interactions%20are%20inherently%20unstable%20and%20should%20not%20persist%20Pimm%201982%20Yet%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20are%20an%20integral%20part%20of%20terrestrialecosystemsThe%20dominant%20plant%20species%20of%20every%20mature%20or%20climax%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20are%20en) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Studies%20of%20soil%20organisms%20do%20not%20dispute%20the%20roles%20of%20competition%20and%20predation%20in%20shaping%20soil%20communities%20but%20they%20highlight%20the%20importance%20of%20mutualisms%20ie%20interactionsbetweenspeciesthathavepositive%20effectson%20eachof%20theirgrowthrates%20Two%20classesof%20mutualismshave%20been%20identifiedsymbioticandnonsymbiotic%20Boucher%20et%20al%201982%20Moore%201988%20Price%201988%20Symbiotic%20mutualisms%20involvean%20intimatephysiologicallink%20between%20the%20species%20Nonsymbiotic%20mutualisms%20arise%20through%20interactions%20that%20may%20or%20may%20not%20involve%20physicalcontact%20Simplemathematical%20models%20of%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20indicate%20that%20the%20interactions%20are%20inherently%20unstable%20and%20should%20not%20persist%20Pimm%201982%20Yet%20symbiotic%20mutualisms%20are%20an%20integral%20part%20of%20terrestrialecosystemsThe%20dominant%20plant%20species%20of%20every%20mature%20or%20climax%20terrestrial%20ecosystem%20are%20en)

[^Plant_1982_e]: Plant roots are a tangled mess of cells and organic secretions. Roots can be divided into a continuum of overlapping regions of activity starting at the tip of a growing root and working back to the crown of the plant, just at the soil surface (Trofymow and Coleman 1982). The root tip is the site of growth. A growing root produces numerous cells and secretions as it penetrates soils, providing many substrates as a source of food for soil microflora and invertebrates. One type of secretion is mucigels, slimy carbon substrates made up largely of sugar that serve as lubricants. Despite the presence of mucigels, many new and old root cells are sloughed off from the shearing forces that accompany the root's movement through the soil. [[Plant_PlantRootsTangledMessCells_1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20roots%20are%20a%20tangled%20mess%20of%20cells%20and%20organic%20secretions%20Roots%20can%20be%20divided%20into%20a%20continuum%20of%20overlapping%20regions%20of%20activity%20starting%20at%20the%20tip%20of%20a%20growing%20root%20and%20working%20back%20to%20the%20crown%20of%20the%20plant%20just%20at%20the%20soil%20surface%20Trofymow%20and%20Coleman%201982%20The%20root%20tip%20is%20the%20site%20of%20growth%20A%20growing%20root%20produces%20numerous%20cells%20and%20secretions%20as%20it%20penetrates%20soils%20providing%20many%20substrates%20as%20a%20source%20of%20food%20for%20soil%20microflora%20and%20invertebrates%20One%20type%20of%20secretion%20is%20mucigels%20slimy%20carbon%20substrates%20made%20up%20largely%20of%20sugar%20that%20serve%20as%20lubricants%20Despite%20the%20presence%20of%20mucigels%20many%20new%20and%20old%20root%20cells%20are%20sloughed%20off%20from%20the%20shearing%20forces%20that%20accompany%20the%20roots%20movement%20through%20the%20soil) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Plant%20roots%20are%20a%20tangled%20mess%20of%20cells%20and%20organic%20secretions%20Roots%20can%20be%20divided%20into%20a%20continuum%20of%20overlapping%20regions%20of%20activity%20starting%20at%20the%20tip%20of%20a%20growing%20root%20and%20working%20back%20to%20the%20crown%20of%20the%20plant%20just%20at%20the%20soil%20surface%20Trofymow%20and%20Coleman%201982%20The%20root%20tip%20is%20the%20site%20of%20growth%20A%20growing%20root%20produces%20numerous%20cells%20and%20secretions%20as%20it%20penetrates%20soils%20providing%20many%20substrates%20as%20a%20source%20of%20food%20for%20soil%20microflora%20and%20invertebrates%20One%20type%20of%20secretion%20is%20mucigels%20slimy%20carbon%20substrates%20made%20up%20largely%20of%20sugar%20that%20serve%20as%20lubricants%20Despite%20the%20presence%20of%20mucigels%20many%20new%20and%20old%20root%20cells%20are%20sloughed%20off%20from%20the%20shearing%20forces%20that%20accompany%20the%20roots%20movement%20through%20the%20soil) 

[^Beyond_1992_f]: Beyond the root tip is a zone of intense nutrient exchange. Water and soluble forms of nitrogen are taken up by the root, and the root leaks low molecular weight carbon compounds, or exudates, into the soil. In grasses, for example, 17% of the fixed carbon is lost via exudation (Milchunas and Lauenroth 1992). Root hairs are numerous in this region and are continually dying and being replaced, as well as being attacked by soil pathogens such as nematodes and insects. [[Beyond_BeyondRootZoneIntenseNutrient_1992]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beyond%20the%20root%20tip%20is%20a%20zone%20of%20intense%20nutrient%20exchange%20Water%20and%20soluble%20forms%20of%20nitrogen%20are%20taken%20up%20by%20the%20root%20and%20the%20root%20leaks%20low%20molecular%20weight%20carbon%20compounds%20or%20exudates%20into%20the%20soil%20In%20grasses%20for%20example%2017%20of%20the%20fixed%20carbon%20is%20lost%20via%20exudation%20Milchunas%20and%20Lauenroth%201992%20Root%20hairs%20are%20numerous%20in%20this%20region%20and%20are%20continually%20dying%20and%20being%20replaced%20as%20well%20as%20being%20attacked%20by%20soil%20pathogens%20such%20as%20nematodes%20and%20insects) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beyond%20the%20root%20tip%20is%20a%20zone%20of%20intense%20nutrient%20exchange%20Water%20and%20soluble%20forms%20of%20nitrogen%20are%20taken%20up%20by%20the%20root%20and%20the%20root%20leaks%20low%20molecular%20weight%20carbon%20compounds%20or%20exudates%20into%20the%20soil%20In%20grasses%20for%20example%2017%20of%20the%20fixed%20carbon%20is%20lost%20via%20exudation%20Milchunas%20and%20Lauenroth%201992%20Root%20hairs%20are%20numerous%20in%20this%20region%20and%20are%20continually%20dying%20and%20being%20replaced%20as%20well%20as%20being%20attacked%20by%20soil%20pathogens%20such%20as%20nematodes%20and%20insects) 

[^In_1988_a]: In one study, the experimental area (the Piceance Basin in Colorado) was denuded of vegetation and topsoil in an effort to simulate the aftermath of mining (Moore et al. 1988a). The soils in half of the plots were further treated with a soil fumigant, methyl bromide, to kill off the soil biota. One-third of each of the fumigated and nonfumigated plots were seeded with native vegetation at rates comparable to the seed production of undisturbed sites, one-third were seeded and planted with sagebrush seedlings, and one-third were left denuded. The number and biomass of plant species and the densities and activity of soil bacteria and fungi were monitored. [[In_StudyExperimentalAreaPiceance_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=In%20one%20study%20the%20experimental%20area%20the%20Piceance%20Basin%20in%20Colorado%20was%20denuded%20of%20vegetation%20and%20topsoil%20in%20an%20effort%20to%20simulate%20the%20aftermath%20of%20mining%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20The%20soils%20in%20half%20of%20the%20plots%20were%20further%20treated%20with%20a%20soil%20fumigant%20methyl%20bromide%20to%20kill%20off%20the%20soil%20biota%20Onethird%20of%20each%20of%20the%20fumigated%20and%20nonfumigated%20plots%20were%20seeded%20with%20native%20vegetation%20at%20rates%20comparable%20to%20the%20seed%20production%20of%20undisturbed%20sites%20onethird%20were%20seeded%20and%20planted%20with%20sagebrush%20seedlings%20and%20onethird%20were%20left%20denuded%20The%20number%20and%20biomass%20of%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20densities%20and%20activity%20of%20soil%20bacteria%20and%20fungi%20were%20monitored) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=In%20one%20study%20the%20experimental%20area%20the%20Piceance%20Basin%20in%20Colorado%20was%20denuded%20of%20vegetation%20and%20topsoil%20in%20an%20effort%20to%20simulate%20the%20aftermath%20of%20mining%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20The%20soils%20in%20half%20of%20the%20plots%20were%20further%20treated%20with%20a%20soil%20fumigant%20methyl%20bromide%20to%20kill%20off%20the%20soil%20biota%20Onethird%20of%20each%20of%20the%20fumigated%20and%20nonfumigated%20plots%20were%20seeded%20with%20native%20vegetation%20at%20rates%20comparable%20to%20the%20seed%20production%20of%20undisturbed%20sites%20onethird%20were%20seeded%20and%20planted%20with%20sagebrush%20seedlings%20and%20onethird%20were%20left%20denuded%20The%20number%20and%20biomass%20of%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20densities%20and%20activity%20of%20soil%20bacteria%20and%20fungi%20were%20monitored) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=In%20one%20study%20the%20experimental%20area%20the%20Piceance%20Basin%20in%20Colorado%20was%20denuded%20of%20vegetation%20and%20topsoil%20in%20an%20effort%20to%20simulate%20the%20aftermath%20of%20mining%20Moore%20et%20al%201988a%20The%20soils%20in%20half%20of%20the%20plots%20were%20further%20treated%20with%20a%20soil%20fumigant%20methyl%20bromide%20to%20kill%20off%20the%20soil%20biota%20Onethird%20of%20each%20of%20the%20fumigated%20and%20nonfumigated%20plots%20were%20seeded%20with%20native%20vegetation%20at%20rates%20comparable%20to%20the%20seed%20production%20of%20undisturbed%20sites%20onethird%20were%20seeded%20and%20planted%20with%20sagebrush%20seedlings%20and%20onethird%20were%20left%20denuded%20The%20number%20and%20biomass%20of%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20densities%20and%20activity%20of%20soil%20bacteria%20and%20fungi%20were%20monitored)

[^Allen_et+al_1989_a]: Allen ME, Allen EB, Friese CF. 1989. Responses of the non-mycotrophic Salsola kali to invasion by vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytologist 111: 45-49. [[Allen_et+al_ResponsesmycotrophicSalsolaKaliInvasion_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Allen%2C%20M.E.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Friese%2C%20C.F.%20Responses%20of%20the%20non-mycotrophic%20Salsola%20kali%20to%20invasion%20by%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allen%2C%20M.E.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Friese%2C%20C.F.%20Responses%20of%20the%20non-mycotrophic%20Salsola%20kali%20to%20invasion%20by%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Allen%2C%20M.E.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Friese%2C%20C.F.%20Responses%20of%20the%20non-mycotrophic%20Salsola%20kali%20to%20invasion%20by%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%201989)

[^Akimov_1996_a]: Akimov V, Hattori T. 1996. Towards cataloguing soil bacteria: Preliminary note. Microbes and Environments 11: 57-60. [[Akimov_TowardsCataloguingSoilBacteriaPreliminary_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Akimov%2C%20V.%20Hattori%2C%20T.%20Towards%20cataloguing%20soil%20bacteria%3A%20Preliminary%20note%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Akimov%2C%20V.%20Hattori%2C%20T.%20Towards%20cataloguing%20soil%20bacteria%3A%20Preliminary%20note%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Akimov%2C%20V.%20Hattori%2C%20T.%20Towards%20cataloguing%20soil%20bacteria%3A%20Preliminary%20note%201996)

[^Anderson_1973_a]: Anderson JM. 1973. The breakdown and decomposition of sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) and beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) leaf litter in two deciduous woodland soils. II. Changes in carbon, hydrogen and polyphenol content. Oecologia 12: 275288. [[Anderson_BreakdownDecompositionSweetChestnutcastanea_1973]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20The%20breakdown%20and%20decomposition%20of%20sweet%20chestnut%20%28Castanea%20sativa%20Mill.%29%20and%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20leaf%20litter%20in%20two%20deciduous%20woodland%20soils.%20II.%20Changes%20in%20carbon%2C%20hydrogen%20and%20polyphenol%20content%201973) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20The%20breakdown%20and%20decomposition%20of%20sweet%20chestnut%20%28Castanea%20sativa%20Mill.%29%20and%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20leaf%20litter%20in%20two%20deciduous%20woodland%20soils.%20II.%20Changes%20in%20carbon%2C%20hydrogen%20and%20polyphenol%20content%201973) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20The%20breakdown%20and%20decomposition%20of%20sweet%20chestnut%20%28Castanea%20sativa%20Mill.%29%20and%20beech%20%28Fagus%20sylvatica%20L.%29%20leaf%20litter%20in%20two%20deciduous%20woodland%20soils.%20II.%20Changes%20in%20carbon%2C%20hydrogen%20and%20polyphenol%20content%201973)

[^Andren_1990_a]: Andren 0, et al. 1990. Organic carbon and nitrogen flows. Ecological Bulletins 40: 85-126. [[Andren_OrganicCarbonNitrogenFlows_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=0%2C%20Andren%20Organic%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20flows%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=0%2C%20Andren%20Organic%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20flows%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=0%2C%20Andren%20Organic%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20flows%201990)

[^Baumann_1998_a]: Baumann P. 1998. Symbiotic associations involving microorganisms. BioScience 48: 254-255. [[Baumann_SymbioticAssociationsInvolvingMicroorganisms_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Baumann%2C%20P.%20Symbiotic%20associations%20involving%20microorganisms%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Baumann%2C%20P.%20Symbiotic%20associations%20involving%20microorganisms%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Baumann%2C%20P.%20Symbiotic%20associations%20involving%20microorganisms%201998)

[^Beare_et+al_1992_a]: Beare MH, Parmelee RW, Hendrix PF, Cheng W, Coleman DC, Crossley DA. 1992. Microbial and faunal interactions and effects on litter nitrogen and decomposition in agroecosystems. Ecological Monographs 62: 569-591. [[Beare_et+al_MicrobialFaunalInteractionsEffectsLitter_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beare%2C%20M.H.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Microbial%20and%20faunal%20interactions%20and%20effects%20on%20litter%20nitrogen%20and%20decomposition%20in%20agroecosystems%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beare%2C%20M.H.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Microbial%20and%20faunal%20interactions%20and%20effects%20on%20litter%20nitrogen%20and%20decomposition%20in%20agroecosystems%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beare%2C%20M.H.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Cheng%2C%20W.%20Microbial%20and%20faunal%20interactions%20and%20effects%20on%20litter%20nitrogen%20and%20decomposition%20in%20agroecosystems%201992)

[^Bignell_1998_a]: Bignell DE, Eggleton P. 1998. Termites. Pages 742-744 in Calow P, ed. Encyclopedia of Ecology and Environmental Management. Oxford: Blackwell Science. [[Bignell_TermitesPages_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Termites.%20Pages%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Termites.%20Pages%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Termites.%20Pages%201998)

[^Biondini_et+al_1985_a]: Biondini ME, Bonham CD, Redente EF. 1985a. Relationships between induced successional patterns and soil biological activity of reclaimed areas. Reclamation and Revegetation Review 3: 323-342.. 1985b. Secondary successional patterns in a sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) community as they relate to soil disturbance and soil biological activity. Vegetatio 60: 25-36. [[Biondini_et+al_RelationshipsBetweenInducedSuccessionalPatterns_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Biondini%2C%20M.E.%20Bonham%2C%20C.D.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Relationships%20between%20induced%20successional%20patterns%20and%20soil%20biological%20activity%20of%20reclaimed%20areas%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Biondini%2C%20M.E.%20Bonham%2C%20C.D.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Relationships%20between%20induced%20successional%20patterns%20and%20soil%20biological%20activity%20of%20reclaimed%20areas%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Biondini%2C%20M.E.%20Bonham%2C%20C.D.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Relationships%20between%20induced%20successional%20patterns%20and%20soil%20biological%20activity%20of%20reclaimed%20areas%201985)

[^Blair_et+al_1996_a]: Blair JM, Bohlen PJ, Freckman DW. 1996. Soil invertebrates as indicators of soil quality. Pages 273-291 in Doran JW, Jones AJ, eds. Methods for Assessing Soil Quality. Madison (WI): Soil Science Society of America. [[Blair_et+al_SoilInvertebratesIndicatorsSoilQuality_1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Blair%2C%20J.M.%20Bohlen%2C%20P.J.%20Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Soil%20invertebrates%20as%20indicators%20of%20soil%20quality.%20Pages%20273-291%20in%20Doran%20JW%2C%20Jones%20AJ%2C%20eds.%20Methods%20for%20Assessing%20Soil%20Quality%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Blair%2C%20J.M.%20Bohlen%2C%20P.J.%20Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Soil%20invertebrates%20as%20indicators%20of%20soil%20quality.%20Pages%20273-291%20in%20Doran%20JW%2C%20Jones%20AJ%2C%20eds.%20Methods%20for%20Assessing%20Soil%20Quality%201996) 

[^Boucher_et+al_1982_a]: Boucher DH, James S, Keeler KH. 1982. The ecology of mutualism. Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics 13: 315-347. [[Boucher_et+al_EcologyMutualism_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Boucher%2C%20D.H.%20James%2C%20S.%20Keeler%2C%20K.H.%20The%20ecology%20of%20mutualism%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boucher%2C%20D.H.%20James%2C%20S.%20Keeler%2C%20K.H.%20The%20ecology%20of%20mutualism%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Boucher%2C%20D.H.%20James%2C%20S.%20Keeler%2C%20K.H.%20The%20ecology%20of%20mutualism%201982)

[^Boyer_1997_a]: Boyer B. 1997. Nematode community structure and decomposition across adjacent mountain ecosystems. Master's thesis. University of Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO. [[Boyer_NematodeCommunityStructureDecompositionAcross_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boyer%2C%20B.%20Nematode%20community%20structure%20and%20decomposition%20across%20adjacent%20mountain%20ecosystems.%20Master%27s%20thesis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boyer%2C%20B.%20Nematode%20community%20structure%20and%20decomposition%20across%20adjacent%20mountain%20ecosystems.%20Master%27s%20thesis%201997) 

[^Brusca_1997_a]: Brusca R. 1997. The Tree of Life, Isopoda. [[Brusca_TreeLifeIsopoda_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brusca%2C%20R.%20The%20Tree%20of%20Life%2C%20Isopoda%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brusca%2C%20R.%20The%20Tree%20of%20Life%2C%20Isopoda%201997) 

[^_0000_g]: <http://phylogeny.arizona.edu/tree/eukaryotes/animals/arthropoda/crustacea/ [[__0000]] [OA](http://phylogeny.arizona.edu/tree/eukaryotes/animals/arthropoda/crustacea/)  

[^isopoda/isopodahtml_1998_a]: isopoda/isopoda.html> (June 1998). Brussaard L, et al. 1997. Biodiversity and ecosystem functioning in soil. Ambio 26: 563-570. [[isopoda/isopodahtml_BiodiversityEcosystemFunctioningSoil_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=isopoda/isopodahtml%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil%201998-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=isopoda/isopodahtml%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil%201998-06) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=isopoda/isopodahtml%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20in%20soil%201998-06)

[^Butcher_et+al_1971_a]: Butcher JW, Snider R, Snider RJ. 1971. Bioecology of edaphic Collembola and Acarina. Annual Review of Entomology 9: 147-178. [[Butcher_et+al_BioecologyEdaphicCollembolaAcarina_1971]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Butcher%2C%20J.W.%20Snider%2C%20R.%20Snider%2C%20R.J.%20Bioecology%20of%20edaphic%20Collembola%20and%20Acarina%201971) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Butcher%2C%20J.W.%20Snider%2C%20R.%20Snider%2C%20R.J.%20Bioecology%20of%20edaphic%20Collembola%20and%20Acarina%201971) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Butcher%2C%20J.W.%20Snider%2C%20R.%20Snider%2C%20R.J.%20Bioecology%20of%20edaphic%20Collembola%20and%20Acarina%201971)

[^Carpenter_1985_a]: Carpenter SR, Kitchell JF, Hodgson JR. 1985. Cascading trophic interactions and lake productivity. BioScience 35: 634-639. [[Carpenter_CascadingTrophicInteractionsLakeProductivity_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Carpenter%2C%20SR%2C%20Kitchell%20JF%2C%20JR%2C%20Hodgson%20Cascading%20trophic%20interactions%20and%20lake%20productivity%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carpenter%2C%20SR%2C%20Kitchell%20JF%2C%20JR%2C%20Hodgson%20Cascading%20trophic%20interactions%20and%20lake%20productivity%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Carpenter%2C%20SR%2C%20Kitchell%20JF%2C%20JR%2C%20Hodgson%20Cascading%20trophic%20interactions%20and%20lake%20productivity%201985)

[^Chantanao_1969_a]: Chantanao A, Jensen HJ. 1969. Saprozoic nematodes as carriers and disseminators of plant pathogenic bacteria. Journal of Nematology 1: 216-218. [[Chantanao_SaprozoicNematodesCarriersDisseminatorsPlant_1969]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chantanao%2C%20A.%20Jensen%2C%20H.J.%20Saprozoic%20nematodes%20as%20carriers%20and%20disseminators%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20bacteria%201969) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chantanao%2C%20A.%20Jensen%2C%20H.J.%20Saprozoic%20nematodes%20as%20carriers%20and%20disseminators%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20bacteria%201969) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chantanao%2C%20A.%20Jensen%2C%20H.J.%20Saprozoic%20nematodes%20as%20carriers%20and%20disseminators%20of%20plant%20pathogenic%20bacteria%201969)

[^Clarholm_1985_a]: Clarholm M. 1985. Possible roles of roots, bacteria, protozoa, and fungi in supplying nitrogen to plants. Pages 355-365 in Fitter AH, Atkinson D, Read DJ, Usher MB, eds. Ecological Interactions in Soils: Plants, Microbes, and Animals. Oxford: Blackwell [[Clarholm_PossibleRolesRootsBacteriaProtozoa_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Clarholm%2C%20M.%20Possible%20roles%20of%20roots%2C%20bacteria%2C%20protozoa%2C%20and%20fungi%20in%20supplying%20nitrogen%20to%20plants.%20Pages%20355-365%20in%20Fitter%20AH%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Clarholm%2C%20M.%20Possible%20roles%20of%20roots%2C%20bacteria%2C%20protozoa%2C%20and%20fungi%20in%20supplying%20nitrogen%20to%20plants.%20Pages%20355-365%20in%20Fitter%20AH%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Clarholm%2C%20M.%20Possible%20roles%20of%20roots%2C%20bacteria%2C%20protozoa%2C%20and%20fungi%20in%20supplying%20nitrogen%20to%20plants.%20Pages%20355-365%20in%20Fitter%20AH%201985)

[^Coleman_1994_a]: Coleman DC. 1994. Compositional analysis of microbial communities: Is there room in the middle? Pages 201-220 in Ritz K, Dighton J, Giller KE, eds. Beyond the Biomass. Chichester (UK): Wiley-Sayce. Coleman DC, Reid CPP, Cole CV. 1983. Biological strategies of nutrient cycling in soil systems. Pages 11-55 in Macfayden A, Ford ED, eds. Advances in Ecological Research. Vol. 13. New York: Academic [[Coleman_CompositionalAnalysisMicrobialCommunitiesThere_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Compositional%20analysis%20of%20microbial%20communities%3A%20Is%20there%20room%20in%20the%20middle%3F%20Pages%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Compositional%20analysis%20of%20microbial%20communities%3A%20Is%20there%20room%20in%20the%20middle%3F%20Pages%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Compositional%20analysis%20of%20microbial%20communities%3A%20Is%20there%20room%20in%20the%20middle%3F%20Pages%201994)

[^Coleman_et+al_1990_a]: Coleman DC, Ingham ER, Hunt HW, Elliott ET, Reid CPP, Moore JC. 1990. Seasonal and faunal effects on decomposition in semiarid prairie, meadow and lodgepole pine forest. Pedobiologia 34: 207-219. [[Coleman_et+al_SeasonalFaunalEffectsDecompositionSemiarid_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Seasonal%20and%20faunal%20effects%20on%20decomposition%20in%20semiarid%20prairie%2C%20meadow%20and%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Seasonal%20and%20faunal%20effects%20on%20decomposition%20in%20semiarid%20prairie%2C%20meadow%20and%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Seasonal%20and%20faunal%20effects%20on%20decomposition%20in%20semiarid%20prairie%2C%20meadow%20and%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201990)

[^Connell_1961_a]: Connell JH. 1961a. Effects of competition, predation by Thais lapillus and other factors on natural populations of the barnacle Balanus balanoides. Ecological Monographs 31: 61-104..196 lb. The influence of interspecific competition and other factors on the distribution of the barnacle Chthamalus stellatus. Ecology 42: 710-723. [[Connell_EffectsCompetitionPredationThaisLapillus_1961]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=1961a%2C%20Connell%20JH.%20Effects%20of%20competition%2C%20predation%20by%20Thais%20lapillus%20and%20other%20factors%20on%20natural%20populations%20of%20the%20barnacle%20Balanus%20balanoides%201961) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=1961a%2C%20Connell%20JH.%20Effects%20of%20competition%2C%20predation%20by%20Thais%20lapillus%20and%20other%20factors%20on%20natural%20populations%20of%20the%20barnacle%20Balanus%20balanoides%201961) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=1961a%2C%20Connell%20JH.%20Effects%20of%20competition%2C%20predation%20by%20Thais%20lapillus%20and%20other%20factors%20on%20natural%20populations%20of%20the%20barnacle%20Balanus%20balanoides%201961)

[^Connell_1977_a]: Connell JH, Slatyer RO. 1977. Mechanisms of succession in natural communities and their role in community stability and organization. American Naturalist 111: 1119-1144. [[Connell_MechanismsSuccessionNaturalCommunitiesTheir_1977]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Connell%2C%20J.H.%20Slatyer%2C%20R.O.%20Mechanisms%20of%20succession%20in%20natural%20communities%20and%20their%20role%20in%20community%20stability%20and%20organization%201977) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Connell%2C%20J.H.%20Slatyer%2C%20R.O.%20Mechanisms%20of%20succession%20in%20natural%20communities%20and%20their%20role%20in%20community%20stability%20and%20organization%201977) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Connell%2C%20J.H.%20Slatyer%2C%20R.O.%20Mechanisms%20of%20succession%20in%20natural%20communities%20and%20their%20role%20in%20community%20stability%20and%20organization%201977)

[^Covich_et+al_1999_a]: Covich AP, Palmer MA, Crowl TA. 1999. The role of benthic invertebrate species in freshwater ecosystems. BioScience 49: 119-127. [[Covich_et+al_RoleBenthicInvertebrateSpeciesFreshwater_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covich%2C%20A.P.%20Palmer%2C%20M.A.%20Crowl%2C%20T.A.%20The%20role%20of%20benthic%20invertebrate%20species%20in%20freshwater%20ecosystems%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covich%2C%20A.P.%20Palmer%2C%20M.A.%20Crowl%2C%20T.A.%20The%20role%20of%20benthic%20invertebrate%20species%20in%20freshwater%20ecosystems%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covich%2C%20A.P.%20Palmer%2C%20M.A.%20Crowl%2C%20T.A.%20The%20role%20of%20benthic%20invertebrate%20species%20in%20freshwater%20ecosystems%201999)

[^Daily_1997_a]: Daily GC. 1997. Nature's Services: Societal Dependence on Natural Ecosystems. Washington (DC): Island Press. [[Daily_NatureServicesSocietalDependenceNatural_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Daily%2C%20G.C.%20Nature%27s%20Services%3A%20Societal%20Dependence%20on%20Natural%20Ecosystems%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Daily%2C%20G.C.%20Nature%27s%20Services%3A%20Societal%20Dependence%20on%20Natural%20Ecosystems%201997) 

[^Edwards_1980_a]: Edwards CA, Lofty JR. 1980. Effects of earthworm inoculation upon the root growth of direct drilled cereals. Journal of Applied Ecology 17: 533-543. [[Edwards_EffectsEarthwormInoculationUponRoot_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20C.A.%20Lofty%2C%20JR%20Effects%20of%20earthworm%20inoculation%20upon%20the%20root%20growth%20of%20direct%20drilled%20cereals%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20C.A.%20Lofty%2C%20JR%20Effects%20of%20earthworm%20inoculation%20upon%20the%20root%20growth%20of%20direct%20drilled%20cereals%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20C.A.%20Lofty%2C%20JR%20Effects%20of%20earthworm%20inoculation%20upon%20the%20root%20growth%20of%20direct%20drilled%20cereals%201980)

[^Elliott_1988_a]: Elliott ET, Coleman DC. 1988. Let the soil work for us. Ecological Bulletins 39: 2332. [[Elliott_SoilWork_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Let%20the%20soil%20work%20for%20us%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Let%20the%20soil%20work%20for%20us%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Let%20the%20soil%20work%20for%20us%201988)

[^Elliott_et+al_1980_a]: Elliott ET, Anderson RV, Coleman DC, Cole CV. 1980. Habitable pore space and microbial trophic interactions. Oikos 35: 327-335. [[Elliott_et+al_HabitablePoreSpaceMicrobialTrophic_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Anderson%2C%20R.V.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Cole%2C%20C.V.%20Habitable%20pore%20space%20and%20microbial%20trophic%20interactions%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Anderson%2C%20R.V.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Cole%2C%20C.V.%20Habitable%20pore%20space%20and%20microbial%20trophic%20interactions%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Anderson%2C%20R.V.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Cole%2C%20C.V.%20Habitable%20pore%20space%20and%20microbial%20trophic%20interactions%201980)

[^Ettema_1998_a]: Ettema CH. 1998. Soil nematode diversity: Species coexistence and ecosystem function. Journal of Nematology 30: 159169. [[Ettema_SoilNematodeDiversitySpeciesCoexistence_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Soil%20nematode%20diversity%3A%20Species%20coexistence%20and%20ecosystem%20function%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Soil%20nematode%20diversity%3A%20Species%20coexistence%20and%20ecosystem%20function%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Soil%20nematode%20diversity%3A%20Species%20coexistence%20and%20ecosystem%20function%201998)

[^Ettema_1993_a]: Ettema CH, Bongers T. 1993. Characterization of nematode colonization and succession in disturbed soil using the Maturity Index. Biology and Fertility of Soils 16: 79-85. [[Ettema_CharacterizationNematodeColonizationSuccessionDisturbed_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20Characterization%20of%20nematode%20colonization%20and%20succession%20in%20disturbed%20soil%20using%20the%20Maturity%20Index%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20Characterization%20of%20nematode%20colonization%20and%20succession%20in%20disturbed%20soil%20using%20the%20Maturity%20Index%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ettema%2C%20C.H.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20Characterization%20of%20nematode%20colonization%20and%20succession%20in%20disturbed%20soil%20using%20the%20Maturity%20Index%201993)

[^Freckman_1993_a]: Freckman DW, Ettema CE. 1993. Assessing nematode communities in agroecosystems of varying human intervention. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 45: 239-261. [[Freckman_AssessingNematodeCommunitiesAgroecosystemsVarying_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Ettema%2C%20C.E.%20Assessing%20nematode%20communities%20in%20agroecosystems%20of%20varying%20human%20intervention%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Ettema%2C%20C.E.%20Assessing%20nematode%20communities%20in%20agroecosystems%20of%20varying%20human%20intervention%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Ettema%2C%20C.E.%20Assessing%20nematode%20communities%20in%20agroecosystems%20of%20varying%20human%20intervention%201993)

[^Freckman_0000_a]: Freckman DW, Reichman OJ. In press. Biotic manipulations involving below ground animals. In Sala 0, Jackson R, Mooney H, Howarth R, eds. Methods in Ecosystem Science. New York: Springer-Verlag. [[Freckman_PressBioticManipulationsInvolvingBelow_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Reichman%2C%20O.J.%20In%20press.%20Biotic%20manipulations%20involving%20below%20ground%20animals.%20In%20Sala%200) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Reichman%2C%20O.J.%20In%20press.%20Biotic%20manipulations%20involving%20below%20ground%20animals.%20In%20Sala%200) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Reichman%2C%20O.J.%20In%20press.%20Biotic%20manipulations%20involving%20below%20ground%20animals.%20In%20Sala%200)

[^Freckman_1989_a]: Freckman DW, Virginia RA. 1989. Plantfeeding nematodes in deep-rooting desert ecosystems. Ecology 70: 1665-1678.. 1991. Nematodes in the McMurdo [[Freckman_PlantfeedingNematodesDeeprootingDesertEcosystems_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20Plantfeeding%20nematodes%20in%20deep-rooting%20desert%20ecosystems%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20Plantfeeding%20nematodes%20in%20deep-rooting%20desert%20ecosystems%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20Plantfeeding%20nematodes%20in%20deep-rooting%20desert%20ecosystems%201989)

[^Dry_0000_h]: Dry Valleys of southern Victoria Land. Antarctic Journal of the United States 26: 233-234. [[Dry_ValleysSouthernVictoriaLand_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dry%20Valleys%20of%20southern%20Victoria%20Land%20Antarctic%20Journal%20of%20the%20United%20States%2026%20233234) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dry%20Valleys%20of%20southern%20Victoria%20Land%20Antarctic%20Journal%20of%20the%20United%20States%2026%20233234) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dry%20Valleys%20of%20southern%20Victoria%20Land%20Antarctic%20Journal%20of%20the%20United%20States%2026%20233234)

[^Freckman_et+al_1997_a]: Freckman DW, Blackburn TH, Brussaard L, Hutchings PA, Palmer MA, Snelgrove PVR. 1997. Linking biodiversity and ecosystem functioning of soils and sediments. Ambio 26: 556-562. [[Freckman_et+al_LinkingBiodiversityEcosystemFunctioningSoils_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Blackburn%2C%20T.H.%20Brussaard%2C%20L.%20Hutchings%2C%20P.A.%20Linking%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20of%20soils%20and%20sediments%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Blackburn%2C%20T.H.%20Brussaard%2C%20L.%20Hutchings%2C%20P.A.%20Linking%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20of%20soils%20and%20sediments%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Blackburn%2C%20T.H.%20Brussaard%2C%20L.%20Hutchings%2C%20P.A.%20Linking%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%20of%20soils%20and%20sediments%201997)

[^Frey_et+al_0000_a]: Frey SD, Elliott ET, Paustian K. In press. Bacterial and fungal abundance and biomass in conventional and no-tillage agroecosystems along two climatic gradients. Soil Biology and Biochemistry. [[Frey_et+al_PressBacterialFungalAbundanceBiomass_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frey%2C%20S.D.%20Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Paustian%2C%20K.%20In%20press.%20Bacterial%20and%20fungal%20abundance%20and%20biomass%20in%20conventional%20and%20no-tillage%20agroecosystems%20along%20two%20climatic%20gradients.%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Frey%2C%20S.D.%20Elliott%2C%20E.T.%20Paustian%2C%20K.%20In%20press.%20Bacterial%20and%20fungal%20abundance%20and%20biomass%20in%20conventional%20and%20no-tillage%20agroecosystems%20along%20two%20climatic%20gradients.%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry) 

[^Grant_1976_a]: Grant WD. 1976. Microbial degradation of condensed tannins. Science 193: 1137- [[Grant_MicrobialDegradationCondensedTannins_1976]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Grant%2C%20W.D.%20Microbial%20degradation%20of%20condensed%20tannins%201976) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grant%2C%20W.D.%20Microbial%20degradation%20of%20condensed%20tannins%201976) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Grant%2C%20W.D.%20Microbial%20degradation%20of%20condensed%20tannins%201976)

[^Grime_1977_a]: Grime JP. 1977. Evidence for the existence of three primary strategies in plants and its relevance to ecological theory. American Naturalist 111: 1169-1194. [[Grime_EvidenceExistenceThreePrimaryStrategies_1977]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Grime%2C%20J.P.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20existence%20of%20three%20primary%20strategies%20in%20plants%20and%20its%20relevance%20to%20ecological%20theory%201977) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grime%2C%20J.P.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20existence%20of%20three%20primary%20strategies%20in%20plants%20and%20its%20relevance%20to%20ecological%20theory%201977) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Grime%2C%20J.P.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20existence%20of%20three%20primary%20strategies%20in%20plants%20and%20its%20relevance%20to%20ecological%20theory%201977)

[^Groffman_1999_a]: Groffman PM, Bohlen PJ. 1999. Soil and sediment biodiversity. BioScience 49: 139148. [[Groffman_SoilSedimentBiodiversity_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Groffman%2C%20P.M.%20Bohlen%2C%20P.J.%20Soil%20and%20sediment%20biodiversity%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Groffman%2C%20P.M.%20Bohlen%2C%20P.J.%20Soil%20and%20sediment%20biodiversity%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Groffman%2C%20P.M.%20Bohlen%2C%20P.J.%20Soil%20and%20sediment%20biodiversity%201999)

[^Hawkins_1989_a]: Hawkins CP, MacMahon JA. 1989. Guilds: The multiple meanings of a concept. The Annual Review of Entomology 34: 423452. [[Hawkins_GuildsMultipleMeaningsConcept_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hawkins%2C%20C.P.%20MacMahon%2C%20J.A.%20Guilds%3A%20The%20multiple%20meanings%20of%20a%20concept%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hawkins%2C%20C.P.%20MacMahon%2C%20J.A.%20Guilds%3A%20The%20multiple%20meanings%20of%20a%20concept%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hawkins%2C%20C.P.%20MacMahon%2C%20J.A.%20Guilds%3A%20The%20multiple%20meanings%20of%20a%20concept%201989)

[^Hendrix_et+al_1986_a]: Hendrix PF, Parmelee RW, Crossley DA Jr, Coleman DC, Odum EP, Groffman PM. 1986. Detritus food webs in conventional and no-tillage agroecosystems. BioScience 36: 374-380. [[Hendrix_et+al_DetritusFoodWebsConventionaltillage_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20DA%2C%20Jr%2C%20Crossley%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Detritus%20food%20webs%20in%20conventional%20and%20no-tillage%20agroecosystems%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20DA%2C%20Jr%2C%20Crossley%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Detritus%20food%20webs%20in%20conventional%20and%20no-tillage%20agroecosystems%201986) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hendrix%2C%20P.F.%20Parmelee%2C%20R.W.%20DA%2C%20Jr%2C%20Crossley%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Detritus%20food%20webs%20in%20conventional%20and%20no-tillage%20agroecosystems%201986)

[^Hoffman_1982_b]: Hoffman RL. 1982. Chilopoda. Pages 681688 in Parker SP, ed. Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms. New York: McGraw-Hill. [[Hoffman_ChilopodaPages681688ParkerSp_1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoffman%2C%20R.L.%20Chilopoda.%20Pages%20681688%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20Living%20Organisms%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoffman%2C%20R.L.%20Chilopoda.%20Pages%20681688%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20Living%20Organisms%201982) 

[^Diplopoda_1988_a]: Diplopoda. Pages 835-860 in Dindal DL, ed. Soil Biology Guide. New York: John Wiley & Sons. Hunt HW, Ingham ER, Coleman DC, Elliott ET, Reid CPP. 1988. Nitrogen limitation of production and decomposition in prairie, mountain meadow, and pine forest. Ecology 69: 1009-1016. [[Diplopoda_Pages835860DindalDl_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Diplopoda%20Pages%20835-860%20in%20Dindal%20DL%2C%20ed.%20Soil%20Biology%20Guide%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Diplopoda%20Pages%20835-860%20in%20Dindal%20DL%2C%20ed.%20Soil%20Biology%20Guide%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Diplopoda%20Pages%20835-860%20in%20Dindal%20DL%2C%20ed.%20Soil%20Biology%20Guide%201988)

[^Ingham_et+al_1989_a]: Ingham ER, Coleman DC, Moore JC. 1989. An analysis of food-web structure and function in a shortgrass prairie, a mountain meadow, and a lodgepole pine forest. Biology and Fertility of Soils 8: 29-37. [[Ingham_et+al_AnalysisFoodStructureFunctionShortgrass_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Moore%2C%20J.C.%20An%20analysis%20of%20food-web%20structure%20and%20function%20in%20a%20shortgrass%20prairie%2C%20a%20mountain%20meadow%2C%20and%20a%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Moore%2C%20J.C.%20An%20analysis%20of%20food-web%20structure%20and%20function%20in%20a%20shortgrass%20prairie%2C%20a%20mountain%20meadow%2C%20and%20a%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Moore%2C%20J.C.%20An%20analysis%20of%20food-web%20structure%20and%20function%20in%20a%20shortgrass%20prairie%2C%20a%20mountain%20meadow%2C%20and%20a%20lodgepole%20pine%20forest%201989)

[^Ingham_et+al_1985_a]: Ingham RE, Trofymow JA, Ingham ER, Coleman DC. 1985. Interactions of bacteria, fungi, and their nematode grazers: Effects on nutrient cycling and plant growth. Ecological Monographs 55: 119140. [[Ingham_et+al_InteractionsBacteriaFungiTheirNematode_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ingham%2C%20R.E.%20Trofymow%2C%20J.A.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Interactions%20of%20bacteria%2C%20fungi%2C%20and%20their%20nematode%20grazers%3A%20Effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%20and%20plant%20growth%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ingham%2C%20R.E.%20Trofymow%2C%20J.A.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Interactions%20of%20bacteria%2C%20fungi%2C%20and%20their%20nematode%20grazers%3A%20Effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%20and%20plant%20growth%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ingham%2C%20R.E.%20Trofymow%2C%20J.A.%20Ingham%2C%20E.R.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20Interactions%20of%20bacteria%2C%20fungi%2C%20and%20their%20nematode%20grazers%3A%20Effects%20on%20nutrient%20cycling%20and%20plant%20growth%201985)

[^Jackson_et+al_1996_a]: Jackson RB, Canadell J, Ehleringer JR, Mooney HA, Sala OE, Schulze ED. 1996. A global analysis of root distributions for terrestrial biomes. Oecologia 108: 389411. [[Jackson_et+al_GlobalAnalysisRootDistributionsTerrestrial_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Canadell%2C%20J.%20Ehleringer%2C%20JR%2C%20Mooney%20HA%2C%20Sala%20A%20global%20analysis%20of%20root%20distributions%20for%20terrestrial%20biomes%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Canadell%2C%20J.%20Ehleringer%2C%20JR%2C%20Mooney%20HA%2C%20Sala%20A%20global%20analysis%20of%20root%20distributions%20for%20terrestrial%20biomes%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jackson%2C%20R.B.%20Canadell%2C%20J.%20Ehleringer%2C%20JR%2C%20Mooney%20HA%2C%20Sala%20A%20global%20analysis%20of%20root%20distributions%20for%20terrestrial%20biomes%201996)

[^Jones_1998_a]: Jones TH, et al. 1998. Impacts of rising atmospheric carbon dioxide on model terrestrial ecosystems. Science 280: 441-443. [[Jones_ImpactsRisingAtmosphericCarbonDioxide_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jones%2C%20T.H.%20Impacts%20of%20rising%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20on%20model%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jones%2C%20T.H.%20Impacts%20of%20rising%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20on%20model%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jones%2C%20T.H.%20Impacts%20of%20rising%20atmospheric%20carbon%20dioxide%20on%20model%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998)

[^Lawton_et+al_1996_a]: Lawton JH, Bignell DE, Bloemers GF, Eggleton P, Hodda ME. 1996. Carbon flux and diversity of nematodes and termites in Cameroon forest soils. Biodiversity and Conservation 5: 261-273. [[Lawton_et+al_CarbonFluxDiversityNematodesTermites_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Bloemers%2C%20G.F.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Carbon%20flux%20and%20diversity%20of%20nematodes%20and%20termites%20in%20Cameroon%20forest%20soils%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Bloemers%2C%20G.F.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Carbon%20flux%20and%20diversity%20of%20nematodes%20and%20termites%20in%20Cameroon%20forest%20soils%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Bignell%2C%20D.E.%20Bloemers%2C%20G.F.%20Eggleton%2C%20P.%20Carbon%20flux%20and%20diversity%20of%20nematodes%20and%20termites%20in%20Cameroon%20forest%20soils%201996)

[^Lawton_1998_a]: Lawton JH, et al. 1998. Biodiversity inventories, indicator taxa and effects of habitat modification in tropical forest. Nature 391: 72-76. [[Lawton_BiodiversityInventoriesIndicatorTaxaEffects_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Biodiversity%20inventories%2C%20indicator%20taxa%20and%20effects%20of%20habitat%20modification%20in%20tropical%20forest%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Biodiversity%20inventories%2C%20indicator%20taxa%20and%20effects%20of%20habitat%20modification%20in%20tropical%20forest%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lawton%2C%20J.H.%20Biodiversity%20inventories%2C%20indicator%20taxa%20and%20effects%20of%20habitat%20modification%20in%20tropical%20forest%201998)

[^Lipari_1997_a]: Lipari G. 1997. Influence of substrate type on growth and activity of certainsoil microfungi.Master'sthesis.Universityof Northern Colorado, Greeley, CO. [[Lipari_InfluenceSubstrateTypeGrowthActivity_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lipari%2C%20G.%20Influence%20of%20substrate%20type%20on%20growth%20and%20activity%20of%20certainsoil%20microfungi.%20Master%27sthesis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lipari%2C%20G.%20Influence%20of%20substrate%20type%20on%20growth%20and%20activity%20of%20certainsoil%20microfungi.%20Master%27sthesis%201997) 

[^Maddison_1997_a]: Maddison DR. 1997. The Tree of Life, Diplura. <http://phylogeny.arizona.edu/ [[Maddison_TreeLifeDiplura_1997]] [OA](http://phylogeny.arizona.edu/)  

[^hexapoda/diplura/diplurahtml_1998_a]: hexapoda/diplura/diplura.html> (June 1998). Matson PA, Naylor R, Ortiz-Monasterio I. 1998. Integration of environmental, agronomic, and economic aspects of fertilizer management. Science 280: 112-115. [[hexapoda/diplura/diplurahtml_IntegrationEnvironmentalAgronomicEconomicAspects_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=hexapoda/diplura/diplurahtml%20Integration%20of%20environmental%2C%20agronomic%2C%20and%20economic%20aspects%20of%20fertilizer%20management%201998-06) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=hexapoda/diplura/diplurahtml%20Integration%20of%20environmental%2C%20agronomic%2C%20and%20economic%20aspects%20of%20fertilizer%20management%201998-06) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=hexapoda/diplura/diplurahtml%20Integration%20of%20environmental%2C%20agronomic%2C%20and%20economic%20aspects%20of%20fertilizer%20management%201998-06)

[^Mcalpine_1990_a]: McAlpine JF. 1990. Insecta: Diptera adults. Pages 1211-1252 in Dindal DL, ed. Soil Biology Guide. New York: John Wiley & Sons. [[Mcalpine_InsectaDipteraAdultsPages12111252_1990]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McAlpine%2C%20J.F.%20Insecta%3A%20Diptera%20adults.%20Pages%201211-1252%20in%20Dindal%20DL%2C%20ed.%20Soil%20Biology%20Guide%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McAlpine%2C%20J.F.%20Insecta%3A%20Diptera%20adults.%20Pages%201211-1252%20in%20Dindal%20DL%2C%20ed.%20Soil%20Biology%20Guide%201990) 

[^Metzger_et+al_1986_a]: Metzger WC, Klein DA, Redente EF. 1986. Bacterial physiological diversity in the rhizosphere of range plants in response to retorted oil shale stress. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 52: 765-770. [[Metzger_et+al_BacterialPhysiologicalDiversityRhizosphereRange_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Metzger%2C%20W.C.%20Klein%2C%20D.A.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Bacterial%20physiological%20diversity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20range%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20retorted%20oil%20shale%20stress%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Metzger%2C%20W.C.%20Klein%2C%20D.A.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Bacterial%20physiological%20diversity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20range%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20retorted%20oil%20shale%20stress%201986) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Metzger%2C%20W.C.%20Klein%2C%20D.A.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Bacterial%20physiological%20diversity%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20range%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20retorted%20oil%20shale%20stress%201986)

[^Milchunas_1992_a]: Milchunas DG, Lauenroth WK. 1992. Carbon dynamics and estimates of primary production by harvest, 14Cdilution, and 14Cturnover. Ecology 73: 593-607. [[Milchunas_CarbonDynamicsEstimatesPrimaryProduction_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Carbon%20dynamics%20and%20estimates%20of%20primary%20production%20by%20harvest%2C%2014Cdilution%2C%20and%2014Cturnover%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Carbon%20dynamics%20and%20estimates%20of%20primary%20production%20by%20harvest%2C%2014Cdilution%2C%20and%2014Cturnover%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Carbon%20dynamics%20and%20estimates%20of%20primary%20production%20by%20harvest%2C%2014Cdilution%2C%20and%2014Cturnover%201992)

[^Moore_1988_a]: Moore JC. 1988. The influence of microarthropods on symbiotic and non-symbiotic mutualism in detrital-based belowground food webs. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 24: 147-159. [[Moore_InfluenceMicroarthropodsSymbioticsymbioticMutualism_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20The%20influence%20of%20microarthropods%20on%20symbiotic%20and%20non-symbiotic%20mutualism%20in%20detrital-based%20belowground%20food%20webs%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20The%20influence%20of%20microarthropods%20on%20symbiotic%20and%20non-symbiotic%20mutualism%20in%20detrital-based%20belowground%20food%20webs%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20The%20influence%20of%20microarthropods%20on%20symbiotic%20and%20non-symbiotic%20mutualism%20in%20detrital-based%20belowground%20food%20webs%201988)

[^Moore_1991_a]: Moore JC, de Ruiter PC. 1991. Temporal and spatial heterogeneity of trophic interactions within below-ground food webs. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 34: 371-397. [[Moore_TemporalSpatialHeterogeneityTrophicInteractions_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20de%20Ruiter%2C%20P.C.%20Temporal%20and%20spatial%20heterogeneity%20of%20trophic%20interactions%20within%20below-ground%20food%20webs%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20de%20Ruiter%2C%20P.C.%20Temporal%20and%20spatial%20heterogeneity%20of%20trophic%20interactions%20within%20below-ground%20food%20webs%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20de%20Ruiter%2C%20P.C.%20Temporal%20and%20spatial%20heterogeneity%20of%20trophic%20interactions%20within%20below-ground%20food%20webs%201991)

[^Science_1988_a]: Compartmentalization of resource utilization within soil ecosystems. Pages 375-393 in Gange AC, Brown VK, eds. Multitrophic Interactions in Terrestrial Systems. London: Blackwell Science. Moore JC, Hunt HW. 1988. Resource compartmentation and the stability of real ecosystems. Nature 333: 261-263. [[Science_CompartmentalizationResourceUtilizationWithinSoil_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=JC%2C%20Science%20Moore%20HW%2C%20Hunt%20Compartmentalization%20of%20resource%20utilization%20within%20soil%20ecosystems.%20Pages%20375-393%20in%20Gange%20AC%2C%20Brown%20VK%2C%20eds.%20Multitrophic%20Interactions%20in%20Terrestrial%20Systems%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=JC%2C%20Science%20Moore%20HW%2C%20Hunt%20Compartmentalization%20of%20resource%20utilization%20within%20soil%20ecosystems.%20Pages%20375-393%20in%20Gange%20AC%2C%20Brown%20VK%2C%20eds.%20Multitrophic%20Interactions%20in%20Terrestrial%20Systems%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=JC%2C%20Science%20Moore%20HW%2C%20Hunt%20Compartmentalization%20of%20resource%20utilization%20within%20soil%20ecosystems.%20Pages%20375-393%20in%20Gange%20AC%2C%20Brown%20VK%2C%20eds.%20Multitrophic%20Interactions%20in%20Terrestrial%20Systems%201988)

[^Moore_et+al_1988_b]: Moore JC, Carpenter AT, Reeves FB, Redente EF, Klein DA. 1988a. Vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (VAM) influence secondary succession. Bulletin of the Ecological Society of America 69: 237. [[Moore_et+al_VesicularArbuscularMycorrhizalFungivam_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Carpenter%2C%20A.T.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20%28VAM%29%20influence%20secondary%20succession%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Carpenter%2C%20A.T.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20%28VAM%29%20influence%20secondary%20succession%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Carpenter%2C%20A.T.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20Redente%2C%20E.F.%20Vesicular%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20%28VAM%29%20influence%20secondary%20succession%201988)

[^Moore_et+al_1988_c]: Moore JC, Walter DE, Hunt HW. 1988b. Arthropod regulation of micro- and mesobiota in below-ground detrital food webs. Annual Review of Entomology 33: 419-439. [[Moore_et+al_ArthropodRegulationMicroMesobiotaBelowground_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Walter%2C%20D.E.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Arthropod%20regulation%20of%20micro-%20and%20mesobiota%20in%20below-ground%20detrital%20food%20webs%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Walter%2C%20D.E.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Arthropod%20regulation%20of%20micro-%20and%20mesobiota%20in%20below-ground%20detrital%20food%20webs%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.C.%20Walter%2C%20D.E.%20Hunt%2C%20H.W.%20Arthropod%20regulation%20of%20micro-%20and%20mesobiota%20in%20below-ground%20detrital%20food%20webs%201988)

[^Moorman_1979_a]: Moorman TB, Reeves FB. 1979. The role of endomycorrhizae in revegetation practices in the semiarid West. II. A bioassay to determine the effect of land disturbances on endomycorrhizal populations. American Journal of Botany 66: 149-180. [[Moorman_RoleEndomycorrhizaeRevegetationPracticesSemiarid_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moorman%2C%20T.B.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20West.%20II.%20A%20bioassay%20to%20determine%20the%20effect%20of%20land%20disturbances%20on%20endomycorrhizal%20populations%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moorman%2C%20T.B.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20West.%20II.%20A%20bioassay%20to%20determine%20the%20effect%20of%20land%20disturbances%20on%20endomycorrhizal%20populations%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moorman%2C%20T.B.%20Reeves%2C%20F.B.%20The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20West.%20II.%20A%20bioassay%20to%20determine%20the%20effect%20of%20land%20disturbances%20on%20endomycorrhizal%20populations%201979)

[^Naeem_1997_a]: Naeem S, Li S. 1997. Biodiversity enhances ecosystem reliability. Nature 390:507-509. [[Naeem_BiodiversityEnhancesEcosystemReliability_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Naeem%2C%20S.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Biodiversity%20enhances%20ecosystem%20reliability%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Naeem%2C%20S.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Biodiversity%20enhances%20ecosystem%20reliability%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Naeem%2C%20S.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Biodiversity%20enhances%20ecosystem%20reliability%201997)

[^Newell_1984_a]: Newell K. 1984a. Interaction between two decomposer basidiomycetes and a collembolan under Sitka spruce: Distribution, abundance and selective grazing. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 16: 227-234. [[Newell_InteractionBetweenDecomposerBasidiomycetesCollembolan_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=1984a%2C%20Newell%20K.%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%3A%20Distribution%2C%20abundance%20and%20selective%20grazing%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=1984a%2C%20Newell%20K.%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%3A%20Distribution%2C%20abundance%20and%20selective%20grazing%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=1984a%2C%20Newell%20K.%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%3A%20Distribution%2C%20abundance%20and%20selective%20grazing%201984)

[^Newell_1984_b]: 1984b. Interaction between two decomposer basidiomycetes and a collembolan under Sitka spruce: Grazing and its potential effects on fungal distribution and litter decomposition. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 16: 235-240. [[Newell_InteractionBetweenDecomposerBasidiomycetesCollembolan_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=b%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%20Grazing%20and%20its%20potential%20effects%20on%20fungal%20distribution%20and%20litter%20decomposition%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry%2016%20235240) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=b%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%20Grazing%20and%20its%20potential%20effects%20on%20fungal%20distribution%20and%20litter%20decomposition%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry%2016%20235240) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=b%20Interaction%20between%20two%20decomposer%20basidiomycetes%20and%20a%20collembolan%20under%20Sitka%20spruce%20Grazing%20and%20its%20potential%20effects%20on%20fungal%20distribution%20and%20litter%20decomposition%20Soil%20Biology%20and%20Biochemistry%2016%20235240)

[^Okon_1994_a]: Okon Y, Labandera-Gonzalez CA. 1994. [[Okon__1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Okon%20Y%20LabanderaGonzalez%20CA%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Okon%20Y%20LabanderaGonzalez%20CA%201994) 

[^Paine_1966_a]: Paine RT. 1966. Food web complexity and species diversity. American Naturalist 100: 65-75. [[Paine_FoodComplexitySpeciesDiversity_1966]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Paine%2C%20R.T.%20Food%20web%20complexity%20and%20species%20diversity%201966) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Paine%2C%20R.T.%20Food%20web%20complexity%20and%20species%20diversity%201966) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Paine%2C%20R.T.%20Food%20web%20complexity%20and%20species%20diversity%201966)

[^Pimentel_et+al_1997_a]: Pimentel D, Wilson C, McCullum C, Huang R, Dwen P, Flack J, Tran Q, Saltman T, Cliff B. 1997. Economic and environmental benefits of biodiversity. BioScience 47: 747-757. [[Pimentel_et+al_EconomicEnvironmentalBenefitsBiodiversity_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pimentel%2C%20D.%20Wilson%2C%20C.%20McCullum%2C%20C.%20Huang%2C%20R.%20Economic%20and%20environmental%20benefits%20of%20biodiversity%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pimentel%2C%20D.%20Wilson%2C%20C.%20McCullum%2C%20C.%20Huang%2C%20R.%20Economic%20and%20environmental%20benefits%20of%20biodiversity%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pimentel%2C%20D.%20Wilson%2C%20C.%20McCullum%2C%20C.%20Huang%2C%20R.%20Economic%20and%20environmental%20benefits%20of%20biodiversity%201997)

[^Pimm_1982_a]: Pimm SL. 1982. Food Webs. London: Chapman and Hall. Power ME. 1990. Effects of fish in river food webs. Science 250: 411-415. [[Pimm_FoodWebs_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pimm%2C%20S.L.%20Food%20Webs%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pimm%2C%20S.L.%20Food%20Webs%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pimm%2C%20S.L.%20Food%20Webs%201982)

[^Price_1988_a]: Price PW. 1988. An overview of organismal interactions in ecosystems in evolutionary and ecological time. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 24: 369-377. [[Price_OverviewOrganismalInteractionsEcosystemsEvolutionary_1988]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Price%2C%20P.W.%20An%20overview%20of%20organismal%20interactions%20in%20ecosystems%20in%20evolutionary%20and%20ecological%20time%201988) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Price%2C%20P.W.%20An%20overview%20of%20organismal%20interactions%20in%20ecosystems%20in%20evolutionary%20and%20ecological%20time%201988) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Price%2C%20P.W.%20An%20overview%20of%20organismal%20interactions%20in%20ecosystems%20in%20evolutionary%20and%20ecological%20time%201988)

[^Ravlin_1996_a]: Ravlin FW. 1996. The Orders and Selected [[Ravlin_OrdersSelected_1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ravlin%2C%20F.W.%20The%20Orders%20and%20Selected%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ravlin%2C%20F.W.%20The%20Orders%20and%20Selected%201996) 

[^Families_0000_i]: Families of Insects, Diplura. <http://www. [[Families__0000]] [OA](http://www)  

[^orders/diplurahtml_1998_a]: orders/diplura.html> (June 1998). Reeves FB, Wagner D, Moorman T, Kiel J. [[orders/diplurahtml__1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=ordersdiplurahtml%20June%201998%20Reeves%20FB%20Wagner%20D%20Moorman%20T%20Kiel%20J) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=ordersdiplurahtml%20June%201998%20Reeves%20FB%20Wagner%20D%20Moorman%20T%20Kiel%20J) 

[^The_1978_j]: The role of endomycorrhizae in revegetation practices in the semi-arid west. I. A comparison of incidence of mycorrhizae in severely disturbed vs. natural environments. American Journal of [[The_RoleEndomycorrhizaeRevegetationPracticesSemiarid_1978]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20west%20I%20A%20comparison%20of%20incidence%20of%20mycorrhizae%20in%20severely%20disturbed%20vs%20natural%20environments%20American%20Journal%20of) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20west%20I%20A%20comparison%20of%20incidence%20of%20mycorrhizae%20in%20severely%20disturbed%20vs%20natural%20environments%20American%20Journal%20of) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=The%20role%20of%20endomycorrhizae%20in%20revegetation%20practices%20in%20the%20semiarid%20west%20I%20A%20comparison%20of%20incidence%20of%20mycorrhizae%20in%20severely%20disturbed%20vs%20natural%20environments%20American%20Journal%20of)

[^Richards_1997_a]: Richards EN, Goff ML. 1997. Arthropod succession on exposed carrion in three contrasting tropical habitats on Hawaii island. Journal of Medical Entomology 34: 328-339. [[Richards_ArthropodSuccessionExposedCarrionThree_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Richards%2C%20E.N.%20Goff%2C%20M.L.%20Arthropod%20succession%20on%20exposed%20carrion%20in%20three%20contrasting%20tropical%20habitats%20on%20Hawaii%20island%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Richards%2C%20E.N.%20Goff%2C%20M.L.%20Arthropod%20succession%20on%20exposed%20carrion%20in%20three%20contrasting%20tropical%20habitats%20on%20Hawaii%20island%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Richards%2C%20E.N.%20Goff%2C%20M.L.%20Arthropod%20succession%20on%20exposed%20carrion%20in%20three%20contrasting%20tropical%20habitats%20on%20Hawaii%20island%201997)

[^Root_1967_a]: Root RB. 1967. The niche exploitation pattern of the blue-gray gnatcatcher. Ecological Monographs 37: 317-350. [[Root_NicheExploitationPatternBluegrayGnatcatcher_1967]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Root%2C%20R.B.%20The%20niche%20exploitation%20pattern%20of%20the%20blue-gray%20gnatcatcher%201967) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Root%2C%20R.B.%20The%20niche%20exploitation%20pattern%20of%20the%20blue-gray%20gnatcatcher%201967) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Root%2C%20R.B.%20The%20niche%20exploitation%20pattern%20of%20the%20blue-gray%20gnatcatcher%201967)

[^Scheller_1982_a]: Scheller U. 1982a. Pauropoda. Pages 724726 in Parker SP, ed. Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms. New York: McGraw-Hill [[Scheller_PauropodaPages724726ParkerSp_1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheller%2C%20U.%20Pauropoda.%20Pages%20724726%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20Living%20Organisms%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheller%2C%20U.%20Pauropoda.%20Pages%20724726%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20Living%20Organisms%201982) 

[^Scheller_1984_b]: 1982b. Symphyla. Pages 688-689 in Parker SP, ed. Synopsis and Classification of LivingOrganisms.New York:McGraw-Hill.. Seastedt TR. 1984. The role of microarthropods in decomposition and mineralization processes. Annual Review of Entomology 29: 25-46. [[Scheller_Pages688689ParkerSp_1984]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=b.%20Symphyla%20Pages%20688-689%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20LivingOrganisms%201984) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=b.%20Symphyla%20Pages%20688-689%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20LivingOrganisms%201984) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=b.%20Symphyla%20Pages%20688-689%20in%20Parker%20SP%2C%20ed.%20Synopsis%20and%20Classification%20of%20LivingOrganisms%201984)

[^Setala_1991_a]: Setala H, Huhta V. 1991. Soil fauna increase betula pendula growth: Laboratory experiments with coniferous forest floor. Ecology 72: 665-671. [[Setala_SoilFaunaIncreaseBetulaPendula_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Setala%2C%20H.%20Huhta%2C%20V.%20Soil%20fauna%20increase%20betula%20pendula%20growth%3A%20Laboratory%20experiments%20with%20coniferous%20forest%20floor%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Setala%2C%20H.%20Huhta%2C%20V.%20Soil%20fauna%20increase%20betula%20pendula%20growth%3A%20Laboratory%20experiments%20with%20coniferous%20forest%20floor%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Setala%2C%20H.%20Huhta%2C%20V.%20Soil%20fauna%20increase%20betula%20pendula%20growth%3A%20Laboratory%20experiments%20with%20coniferous%20forest%20floor%201991)

[^Silver_et+al_1996_a]: Silver WL, Brown S, Lugo AE. 1996. Effects of changes in biodiversity on ecosystem function in tropical forests. Conservation Biology 10: 17-24. [[Silver_et+al_EffectsChangesBiodiversityEcosystemFunction_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Silver%2C%20W.L.%20Brown%2C%20S.%20Lugo%2C%20A.E.%20Effects%20of%20changes%20in%20biodiversity%20on%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20tropical%20forests%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Silver%2C%20W.L.%20Brown%2C%20S.%20Lugo%2C%20A.E.%20Effects%20of%20changes%20in%20biodiversity%20on%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20tropical%20forests%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Silver%2C%20W.L.%20Brown%2C%20S.%20Lugo%2C%20A.E.%20Effects%20of%20changes%20in%20biodiversity%20on%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20tropical%20forests%201996)

[^Swift_1994_a]: Swift MJ, Anderson JM. 1994. Biodiversity and ecosystem function in agricultural systems. Pages 15-41 in Schulze ED, Mooney HA, eds. Biodiversity and Ecosystem Function. New York: Springer-Verlag. Swift MJ, Heal OW, Anderson JM. 1979. [[Swift_BiodiversityEcosystemFunctionAgriculturalSystems_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Swift%2C%20M.J.%20Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20agricultural%20systems.%20Pages%2015-41%20in%20Schulze%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Swift%2C%20M.J.%20Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20agricultural%20systems.%20Pages%2015-41%20in%20Schulze%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Swift%2C%20M.J.%20Anderson%2C%20J.M.%20Biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20function%20in%20agricultural%20systems.%20Pages%2015-41%20in%20Schulze%201994)

[^Californiapress_et+al_1998_a]: Decomposition in terrestrial ecosystems. Berkeley(CA):Universityof CaliforniaPress. Toro M, Azcon R, Barea JM. 1998. The use of isotopic dilution techniques to evaluate the interactive effects of Rhizobium genotype, mycorrhizal fungi, phosphate-solubilizing rhizobacteria and rock phosphate on nitrogen and phosphorus acquisition. New Phytologist 138: 265-273. [[Californiapress_et+al_DecompositionTerrestrialEcosystems_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=M%2C%20CaliforniaPress%20Toro%20R%2C%20Azcon%20JM%2C%20Barea%20Decomposition%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=M%2C%20CaliforniaPress%20Toro%20R%2C%20Azcon%20JM%2C%20Barea%20Decomposition%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=M%2C%20CaliforniaPress%20Toro%20R%2C%20Azcon%20JM%2C%20Barea%20Decomposition%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201998)

[^Trofymow_1982_a]: Trofymow JA, Coleman DC. 1982. The role of bacterivorous and fungivorous nematodes in cellulose and chitin decomposition in the context of a root/rhizosphere soil conceptual model. Pages 117-137 in Freckman DW, ed. Nematodes in Soil Ecosystems. Austin (TX): University of Texas Press. [[Trofymow_RoleBacterivorousFungivorousNematodesCellulose_1982]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trofymow%2C%20J.A.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20The%20role%20of%20bacterivorous%20and%20fungivorous%20nematodes%20in%20cellulose%20and%20chitin%20decomposition%20in%20the%20context%20of%20a%20root/rhizosphere%20soil%20conceptual%20model.%20Pages%20117-137%20in%20Freckman%20DW%2C%20ed.%20Nematodes%20in%20Soil%20Ecosystems%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trofymow%2C%20J.A.%20Coleman%2C%20D.C.%20The%20role%20of%20bacterivorous%20and%20fungivorous%20nematodes%20in%20cellulose%20and%20chitin%20decomposition%20in%20the%20context%20of%20a%20root/rhizosphere%20soil%20conceptual%20model.%20Pages%20117-137%20in%20Freckman%20DW%2C%20ed.%20Nematodes%20in%20Soil%20Ecosystems%201982) 

[^Venette_1997_a]: Venette RC, Ferris H. 1997. Thermal constraints to population growth of bacterial-feeding nematodes. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 29: 63-74. [[Venette_ThermalConstraintsPopulationGrowthBacterialfeeding_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Venette%2C%20R.C.%20Ferris%2C%20H.%20Thermal%20constraints%20to%20population%20growth%20of%20bacterial-feeding%20nematodes%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Venette%2C%20R.C.%20Ferris%2C%20H.%20Thermal%20constraints%20to%20population%20growth%20of%20bacterial-feeding%20nematodes%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Venette%2C%20R.C.%20Ferris%2C%20H.%20Thermal%20constraints%20to%20population%20growth%20of%20bacterial-feeding%20nematodes%201997)

[^Vitousek_1989_a]: Vitousek PM, Walker LR. 1989. Biological invasion by Myrica faya in Hawai'i: Plant demography, nitrogen fixation, ecosystem effects. Ecological Monographs 59: 247-265. [[Vitousek_BiologicalInvasionMyricaFayaHawai_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.R.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20in%20Hawai%27i%3A%20Plant%20demography%2C%20nitrogen%20fixation%2C%20ecosystem%20effects%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.R.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20in%20Hawai%27i%3A%20Plant%20demography%2C%20nitrogen%20fixation%2C%20ecosystem%20effects%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.R.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20in%20Hawai%27i%3A%20Plant%20demography%2C%20nitrogen%20fixation%2C%20ecosystem%20effects%201989)

[^Vitousek_et+al_1987_a]: Vitousek PM, Walker LR, Whiteaker LD, Mueller-Dombois D, Matson PA. 1987. [[Vitousek_et+al__1987]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%20PM%20Walker%20LR%20Whiteaker%20LD%20MuellerDombois%20D%20Matson%20PA%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%20PM%20Walker%20LR%20Whiteaker%20LD%20MuellerDombois%20D%20Matson%20PA%201987) 

[^Vitousek_et+al_1997_a]: Vitousek PM, Mooney HA, Lubchenco J, Melillo JM. 1997. Human domination of Earth's ecosystems. Science 277:494-499. [[Vitousek_et+al_HumanDominationEarthEcosystems_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Melillo%2C%20J.M.%20Human%20domination%20of%20Earth%27s%20ecosystems%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Melillo%2C%20J.M.%20Human%20domination%20of%20Earth%27s%20ecosystems%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Melillo%2C%20J.M.%20Human%20domination%20of%20Earth%27s%20ecosystems%201997)

[^Wagener_et+al_1998_a]: Wagener SM, Oswood MW, Schimel JP. 1998. Rivers and soils: Parallels in carbon and nutrientprocessing. BioScience48: 104-108. [[Wagener_et+al_RiversSoilsParallelsCarbonNutrientprocessing_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagener%2C%20S.M.%20Oswood%2C%20M.W.%20Schimel%2C%20J.P.%20Rivers%20and%20soils%3A%20Parallels%20in%20carbon%20and%20nutrientprocessing%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wagener%2C%20S.M.%20Oswood%2C%20M.W.%20Schimel%2C%20J.P.%20Rivers%20and%20soils%3A%20Parallels%20in%20carbon%20and%20nutrientprocessing%201998) 

[^Wall_1995_a]: Wall DH, Virginia RA. In press. The world beneath our feet: Soil biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. In Raven PR, Williams T, eds. Nature and Human Society: The Quest For A Sustainable World. Washington (DC): National Academy Press. Wardle DA. 1995. Impacts of disturbance on detritus food webs in agro-ecosystems of contrasting tillage and weed management practices. Advances in Ecological Research 26: 105-183. [[Wall_PressTheWorldBeneathFeet_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wall%2C%20D.H.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20In%20press.%20The%20world%20beneath%20our%20feet%3A%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wall%2C%20D.H.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20In%20press.%20The%20world%20beneath%20our%20feet%3A%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wall%2C%20D.H.%20Virginia%2C%20R.A.%20In%20press.%20The%20world%20beneath%20our%20feet%3A%20Soil%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20functioning%201995)

[^Wardle_et+al_1995_a]: Wardle DA, Yeates GW, Watson RN, Nicholson KS. 1995. Development of the decomposer foodweb, trophic relationships and ecosystem properties during a three-year primary succession in sawdust. Oikos 73: 155-166. [[Wardle_et+al_DevelopmentDecomposerFoodwebTrophicRelationships_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Watson%2C%20R.N.%20Nicholson%2C%20K.S.%20Development%20of%20the%20decomposer%20foodweb%2C%20trophic%20relationships%20and%20ecosystem%20properties%20during%20a%20three-year%20primary%20succession%20in%20sawdust%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Watson%2C%20R.N.%20Nicholson%2C%20K.S.%20Development%20of%20the%20decomposer%20foodweb%2C%20trophic%20relationships%20and%20ecosystem%20properties%20during%20a%20three-year%20primary%20succession%20in%20sawdust%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Watson%2C%20R.N.%20Nicholson%2C%20K.S.%20Development%20of%20the%20decomposer%20foodweb%2C%20trophic%20relationships%20and%20ecosystem%20properties%20during%20a%20three-year%20primary%20succession%20in%20sawdust%201995)

[^Wooton_1993_a]: Wooton JT, Power ME. 1993. [[Wooton__1993]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wooton%20JT%20Power%20ME%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wooton%20JT%20Power%20ME%201993) 

[^Productivity_0000_a]: Productivity, consumers, and the structure of a river food chain. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 90: 1384-1387. [[Productivity_StructureRiverFoodChain_0000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Productivity%2C%20consumers%20and%20the%20structure%20of%20a%20river%20food%20chain) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Productivity%2C%20consumers%20and%20the%20structure%20of%20a%20river%20food%20chain) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Productivity%2C%20consumers%20and%20the%20structure%20of%20a%20river%20food%20chain)

[^Yeates_et+al_1993_a]: Yeates GW, Bongers T, de Goede RGM, Freckman DW, Georgieva SS. 1993. Feeding habits in nematode families and genera-an outline for soil ecologists. Journal of Nematology 25: 315-331. [[Yeates_et+al_FeedingHabitsNematodeFamiliesGenera_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20de%20Goede%2C%20R.G.M.%20Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Feeding%20habits%20in%20nematode%20families%20and%20genera-an%20outline%20for%20soil%20ecologists%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20de%20Goede%2C%20R.G.M.%20Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Feeding%20habits%20in%20nematode%20families%20and%20genera-an%20outline%20for%20soil%20ecologists%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yeates%2C%20G.W.%20Bongers%2C%20T.%20de%20Goede%2C%20R.G.M.%20Freckman%2C%20D.W.%20Feeding%20habits%20in%20nematode%20families%20and%20genera-an%20outline%20for%20soil%20ecologists%201993)

