[[Hay_BioticResistancePlantInvasionsNative_2005]]

# [Biotic resistance to plant invasions? Native herbivores prefer non‐native plants](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00799.x)

## [[John D. Parker; Mark E. Hay]]

### 2005

## Abstract
==In contrast to expectations of the enemy release hypothesis, but consistent with the notion of biotic resistance, ==we found that native generalist crayfishes preferred exotic over native freshwater plants== by a 3 : ==1 ratio when plants were paired by taxonomic relatedness====. Native crayfishes also preferred exotic over native plants when tested across 57 native and 15 exotic plants found growing sympatrically at 11 sites throughout the southeastern USA. Exotic grass carp that share little evolutionary history with most of these plants exhibited no preference for native vs. exotic species. Analyses of three terrestrial data sets showed similar patterns, with native herbivores generally preferring exotic plants, while exotic herbivores rarely exhibited a preference. Thus, exotic plants may escape ==their coevolved herbivores only to be preferentially consumed by the native generalist herbivores in their new ranges==, suggesting that native herbivores may provide biotic resistance to plant invasions.

## Key concepts
#claim/exotic_plant; #claim/native_plant; #claim/exotic_species; #result/grass_carp; #ecology; #result/american; #finding/native_species; #claim/plant_invasion; #method/vallisneria_americana; #new_range; #method/ludwigia_palustris; #method/myriophyllum_spicatum; #result/myriophyllum_aquaticum; #pontederia_cordata; #myriophyllum_pinnatum; #euhrychiopsis; #method/eichhornia_crassipes; #myriophyllum_heterophyllum; #euhrychiopsis_lecontei; #result/deroceras_reticulatum

## Quote
> Exotic plants are more palatable than native plants to native generalist herbivores, suggesting the potential for native herbivores to provide biotic resistance to plant invasions


## Key points
- The enemy release hypothesis is one of the most commonly accepted theories to explain the success of invasive species
- Neither consumer ever preferred a native plant over its exotic relative, one contrast trended in this direction (Ludwigia spp. comparisons for P. acutus; Fig. 1; Table 1)
- The above contrasts minimize uncontrolled variance because of taxonomy and, for six of the 10 paired contrasts, location. This allows a clear contrast of herbivore preference for similar native vs. exotic plants but constrains our sample size because of the difficulty of finding related native and exotic species growing sympatrically
- Both species of native crayfishes significantly preferred exotic over native plants
- When we included all available data from our study and the terrestrial studies, six of six native generalist herbivores preferred exotic over native plants, while four of five exotic generalists did not (Figs 2 and 3)
- Exotic plants are more palatable than native plants to native generalist herbivores, suggesting the potential for native herbivores to provide biotic resistance to plant invasions

## Synopsis

### Introduction
The enemy release hypothesis is one of the most commonly accepted theories to explain the success of invasive species.
It posits that exotic species become invasive because they are liberated from consumer control in their new ranges ([^Darwin_1859_a]; [^Elton_1958_a]).
The absence of coevolved specialist enemies and the preferential consumption of native species by native generalists putatively gives exotic species a competitive advantage over their native counterparts ([^Maron_2001_a]</a>; [^Keane_2002_a]; [^Shea_2002_a]).
A lower diversity of enemies need not translate into less damage ([^Maron_2001_a]</a>)

### Methods
The authors tested whether native consumers preferred to feed on native or exotic plants by conducting choice feeding assays in the laboratory with 10 phylogenetically paired native and exotic plants (Table 1).
The authors examined over 50 separate wetlands, ponds, lakes, streams and rivers in several southeastern states of the USA for cooccurring, taxonomically related native and exotic species.
The authors selected pairings based on the first closely related taxa that the authors encountered, resulting in four Plant origin Consumer species Native Exotic P. spiculifer P. acutus.

### Results
Each consumer significantly preferred exotic over native plants in eight of the 10 taxonomic pairs (Fig. 1; Table 1).
Neither consumer ever preferred a native plant over its exotic relative, one contrast trended in this direction (Ludwigia spp. comparisons for P. acutus; Fig. 1; Table 1).
The above contrasts minimize uncontrolled variance because of taxonomy and, for six of the 10 paired contrasts, location
This allows a clear contrast of herbivore preference for similar native vs exotic plants but constrains the sample size because of the difficulty of finding related native and exotic species growing sympatrically.
Despite the potential for large uncontrolled variance due to taxonomic and site-specific effects on palatability, exotic species (n 1⁄4 15) were significantly more palatable than native taxa (n 1⁄4 57) to both species of native consumer (P. spiculifer: P 1⁄4 0.034; P. acutus: P 1⁄4 0.033, Mann–Whitney tests; Fig. 2), but not to the exotic grass carp (P 1⁄4 0.464, n 1⁄4 14 exotic and 33 native plants; Fig. 2).
The 10 exotic species from the phylogenetic pairings were included among the 15 species in the community comparisons, these 10 species did not appear to drive the community relationship as several of the plants not included in the phylogenetic pairings were highly palatable to both crayfishes (Fig. 2)

### Conclusion
The authors' results directly oppose the prediction of the enemy release hypothesis that native generalists will prefer native prey ([^Keane_2002_a]; [^Colautti_et+al_2004_a]).
Instead, both species of native crayfishes significantly preferred exotic over native plants.
Both species of native crayfishes significantly preferred exotic over native plants
This was true in both the phylogenetic pairings and in the region-wide assays of plant palatability (Figs 1 and 2).
When the authors included all available data from the study and the terrestrial studies, six of six native generalist herbivores preferred exotic over native plants, while four of five exotic generalists did not (Figs 2 and 3).
Exotic plants are more palatable than native plants to native generalist herbivores, suggesting the potential for native herbivores to provide biotic resistance to plant invasions


## Study subjects

### 3 terrestrial data sets
- Exotic grass carp that share little evolutionary history with most of these plants exhibited no preference for native vs. exotic species. ==Analyses of three terrestrial data sets showed similar patterns, with native herbivores generally preferring exotic plants, while exotic herbivores rarely exhibited a preference==. Thus, exotic plants may escape their coevolved herbivores only to be preferentially consumed by the native generalist herbivores in their new ranges, suggesting that native herbivores may provide biotic resistance to plant invasions

### 15 individuals
- We housed each crayfish in a separate 12 · 12 · 10 cm cubicle with perforated walls receiving recirculating, filtered water and fed them a diet of Bio-Blend Herbivore food 3–4 times per week. ==For each native vs. exotic contrast, we offered 15 individuals of each crayfish species a portion (500 ± 100 mg) from a native and a related exotic macrophyte bound side-by-side in a binder clip==. We ended each replicate when a consumer had eaten approximately half of either species

### 10 pairs
- Data were analysed with a mixed model ANOVA using each replicate consumer as a randomized block nested within each species pair, followed by planned, paired contrasts. ==The phylogenetic assays provide a powerful contrast because we could pair all plants by taxonomy and six of the 10 pairs by location of collection as well==. However, the requirement for finding pairs of congeneric or confamilial species constrained our sample size to 10 pairs

## Data analysis
- #method/mixed_model
- #method/ANOVA
- #method/mann_whitney_test
- #method/t_tests
- #method/mann_whitney

## Findings
- T 1⁄4 )9.15, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )4.59, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )2.86, P 1⁄4 0.013 t 1⁄4 )2.65, P 1⁄4 0.019 t 1⁄4 0.21, P 1⁄4 0.839 t 1⁄4 )0.63, P 1⁄4 0.536 t 1⁄4 )5.04, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )4.54, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )3.28, P 1⁄4 0.005 t 1⁄4 )8.15, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )9.51, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )4.91, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )2.82, P 1⁄4 0.014 t 1⁄4 )10.12, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 2.13, P 1⁄4 0.051 t 1⁄4 )2.21, P 1⁄4 0.044 t 1⁄4 )4.67, P < 0.0001 t 1⁄4 )3.33, P 1⁄4 0.005 t 1⁄4 )1.41, P 1⁄4 0.179 t 1⁄4 )7.29, P < 0.0001
- In the 10 phylogenetically controlled feeding assays, both native crayfish showed a significant, 3-fold preference for exotic over native species (Fig. 1 insets; P. spiculifer: F1,140 1⁄4 136.91, P < 0.0001; P. acutus: F1,140 1⁄4 147.51, (a)
- Native herbivores still strongly preferred exotic over native species (P < 0.0001 in all cases)

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- If native consumers prefer exotic over native prey, this suggests that native consumers could limit invasions, as suggested by the biotic resistance hypothesis ([^Elton_1958_a]). ==Despite these competing predictions, we know little about preferences of native consumers for native vs==. exotic prey, leading to little predictive power for the likelihood of native consumers to influence biological invasions ([^Maron_2001_a]; [^Keane_2002_a]; [^Shea_2002_a]; [^Colautti_et+al_2004_a])
- ==However, in contrast to expectations from the enemy release hypothesis, one recent field test found that exotic plants in an experimental meadow suffered greater, rather than lesser, damage from naturally recruited herbivores than did related native plants ([^Agrawal_2003_a]). Here==, we report an experimental study of the feeding preferences of three generalist aquatic consumers (two native and one non-native species) for native vs. exotic freshwater plants from throughout the southeastern USA
- We analysed (Mann–Whitney tests) the relative amount eaten of all native and exotic plant species for each consumer in each study. ==Although these studies found opposing influences of successional status on plant palatability==, most of the exotic plants in each study were labelled early successional plants – 10 of 14 species in [^Otte_1975_a]), all 27 species in [^Cates_1975_a]), and all 13 species in [^Rathcke_1985_a]), potentially confounding plant origin with successional status
- Alligatorweed Alternanthera philoxeroides and the watermilfoils Myriophyllum spp. were relatively low preference prey (Fig. 2), suggesting that invasiveness in these species could result in part from their low palatability to native generalists. ==In other studies, however==, Eurasian watermilfoil Myriophyllum spicatum is preferred over native milfoils and unrelated native macrophytes by both a native specialist weevil and an exotic generalist moth larva ([^Solarz_1996_a], [^Solarz_2001_a]; [^Gross_et+al_2001_a]), perhaps leading to declines in the abundance of this aquatic weed ([^Creed_2000_a])
- The influence of herbivores on plant invasions is uncertain ([^Maron_2001_a]), but the proposed mechanisms and the importance of enemy release have often been accepted without critical evaluation (see discussions in [^Keane_2002_a]; [^Shea_2002_a]; [^Colautti_et+al_2004_a]). In contrast to the common assumption that exotic plants are advantaged because native generalist herbivores will prefer native plants, ==we found no evidence to support this hypothesis==


## References
[^Agrawal_2003_a]: Agrawal, A.A. & Kotanen, P.M. (2003) Herbivores and the success of exotic plants: a phylogenetically controlled experiment. Ecol. Lett., 6, 712–715. [[Agrawal_HerbivoresSuccessExoticPlantsPhylogenetically_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Kotanen%2C%20P.M.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20success%20of%20exotic%20plants%3A%20a%20phylogenetically%20controlled%20experiment%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Kotanen%2C%20P.M.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20success%20of%20exotic%20plants%3A%20a%20phylogenetically%20controlled%20experiment%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Kotanen%2C%20P.M.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20success%20of%20exotic%20plants%3A%20a%20phylogenetically%20controlled%20experiment%202003)

[^Byers_2002_a]: Byers, J.E. (2002) Impact of non-indigenous species on natives enhanced by anthropogenic alteration of selection regimes. Oikos, 97, 449–458. [[Byers_ImpactindigenousSpeciesNativesEnhanced_2002]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Byers%2C%20J.E.%20Impact%20of%20non-indigenous%20species%20on%20natives%20enhanced%20by%20anthropogenic%20alteration%20of%20selection%20regimes%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Byers%2C%20J.E.%20Impact%20of%20non-indigenous%20species%20on%20natives%20enhanced%20by%20anthropogenic%20alteration%20of%20selection%20regimes%202002) 

[^Callaway_2000_a]: Callaway, R.M. & Aschehoug, E.T. (2000) Invasive plants versus their new and old neighbors: a mechanism for exotic invasion. Science, 290, 521–523. [[Callaway_InvasivePlantsVersusTheirNeighbors_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Callaway%2C%20R.M.%20Aschehoug%2C%20E.T.%20Invasive%20plants%20versus%20their%20new%20and%20old%20neighbors%3A%20a%20mechanism%20for%20exotic%20invasion%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Callaway%2C%20R.M.%20Aschehoug%2C%20E.T.%20Invasive%20plants%20versus%20their%20new%20and%20old%20neighbors%3A%20a%20mechanism%20for%20exotic%20invasion%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Callaway%2C%20R.M.%20Aschehoug%2C%20E.T.%20Invasive%20plants%20versus%20their%20new%20and%20old%20neighbors%3A%20a%20mechanism%20for%20exotic%20invasion%202000)

[^Cates_1975_a]: Cates, R.G. & Orians, G.H. (1975) Successional status and palatability of plants to generalized herbivores. Ecology, 56, 410–418. [[Cates_SuccessionalStatusPalatabilityPlantsGeneralized_1975]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cates%2C%20R.G.%20Orians%2C%20G.H.%20Successional%20status%20and%20palatability%20of%20plants%20to%20generalized%20herbivores%201975) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cates%2C%20R.G.%20Orians%2C%20G.H.%20Successional%20status%20and%20palatability%20of%20plants%20to%20generalized%20herbivores%201975) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cates%2C%20R.G.%20Orians%2C%20G.H.%20Successional%20status%20and%20palatability%20of%20plants%20to%20generalized%20herbivores%201975)

[^Colautti_et+al_2004_a]: Colautti, R.I., Ricciardi, A., Grigorovich, I.A. & MacIsaac, H.J. (2004) Is invasion success explained by the enemy release hypothesis? Ecol. Lett., 7, 721–733. [[Colautti_et+al_InvasionSuccessExplainedEnemyRelease_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Colautti%2C%20R.I.%20Ricciardi%2C%20A.%20Grigorovich%2C%20I.A.%20MacIsaac%2C%20H.J.%20Is%20invasion%20success%20explained%20by%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%3F%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Colautti%2C%20R.I.%20Ricciardi%2C%20A.%20Grigorovich%2C%20I.A.%20MacIsaac%2C%20H.J.%20Is%20invasion%20success%20explained%20by%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%3F%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Colautti%2C%20R.I.%20Ricciardi%2C%20A.%20Grigorovich%2C%20I.A.%20MacIsaac%2C%20H.J.%20Is%20invasion%20success%20explained%20by%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%3F%202004)

[^Crawley_1989_a]: Crawley, M.J. (1989) The relative importance of vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores in plant population dynamics. In: Insect– Plant Interactions (ed. Bernays, E.A.). CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, FL, pp. 45–71. [[Crawley_RelativeImportanceVertebrateInvertebrateHerbivores_1989]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20The%20relative%20importance%20of%20vertebrate%20and%20invertebrate%20herbivores%20in%20plant%20population%20dynamics%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20The%20relative%20importance%20of%20vertebrate%20and%20invertebrate%20herbivores%20in%20plant%20population%20dynamics%201989) 

[^Creed_2000_a]: Creed, R.P. (2000) Is there a new keystone species in North American lakes and rivers? Oikos, 91, 405–408. [[Creed_ThereKeystoneSpeciesNorthAmerican_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Creed%2C%20R.P.%20Is%20there%20a%20new%20keystone%20species%20in%20North%20American%20lakes%20and%20rivers%3F%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Creed%2C%20R.P.%20Is%20there%20a%20new%20keystone%20species%20in%20North%20American%20lakes%20and%20rivers%3F%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Creed%2C%20R.P.%20Is%20there%20a%20new%20keystone%20species%20in%20North%20American%20lakes%20and%20rivers%3F%202000)

[^Cronin_1996_a]: Cronin, G. & Hay, M.E. (1996) Susceptibility to herbivores depends on recent history of both the plant and animal. Ecology, 77, 1531–1543. [[Cronin_SusceptibilityHerbivoresDependsRecentHistory_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cronin%2C%20G.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Susceptibility%20to%20herbivores%20depends%20on%20recent%20history%20of%20both%20the%20plant%20and%20animal%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cronin%2C%20G.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Susceptibility%20to%20herbivores%20depends%20on%20recent%20history%20of%20both%20the%20plant%20and%20animal%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cronin%2C%20G.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Susceptibility%20to%20herbivores%20depends%20on%20recent%20history%20of%20both%20the%20plant%20and%20animal%201996)

[^Cyr_1993_a]: Cyr, H. & Pace, M.L. (1993) Magnitude and patterns of herbivory in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. Nature, 361, 148–150. [[Cyr_MagnitudePatternsHerbivoryAquaticTerrestrial_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cyr%2C%20H.%20Pace%2C%20M.L.%20Magnitude%20and%20patterns%20of%20herbivory%20in%20aquatic%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cyr%2C%20H.%20Pace%2C%20M.L.%20Magnitude%20and%20patterns%20of%20herbivory%20in%20aquatic%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cyr%2C%20H.%20Pace%2C%20M.L.%20Magnitude%20and%20patterns%20of%20herbivory%20in%20aquatic%20and%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%201993)

[^Darwin_1859_a]: Darwin, C.R. (1859) The Origin of Species. Literary Classics, Inc., New York. [[Darwin_OriginSpecies_1859]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Darwin%2C%20C.R.%20The%20Origin%20of%20Species%201859) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Darwin%2C%20C.R.%20The%20Origin%20of%20Species%201859) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Darwin%2C%20C.R.%20The%20Origin%20of%20Species%201859)

[^Dorn_2004_a]: Dorn, N.J. & Wojdak, J.M. (2004) The role of omnivorous crayfish in littoral communities. Oecologia, 140, 150–159. [[Dorn_RoleOmnivorousCrayfishLittoralCommunities_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dorn%2C%20N.J.%20Wojdak%2C%20J.M.%20The%20role%20of%20omnivorous%20crayfish%20in%20littoral%20communities%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dorn%2C%20N.J.%20Wojdak%2C%20J.M.%20The%20role%20of%20omnivorous%20crayfish%20in%20littoral%20communities%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dorn%2C%20N.J.%20Wojdak%2C%20J.M.%20The%20role%20of%20omnivorous%20crayfish%20in%20littoral%20communities%202004)

[^Elton_1958_a]: Elton, C.S. (1958) The Ecology of Invasions by Animals and Plants. University of Chicago Press, Chicago, IL. [[Elton_EcologyInvasionsAnimalsPlants_1958]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Elton%2C%20C.S.%20The%20Ecology%20of%20Invasions%20by%20Animals%20and%20Plants%201958) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Elton%2C%20C.S.%20The%20Ecology%20of%20Invasions%20by%20Animals%20and%20Plants%201958) 

[^Gross_et+al_2001_a]: Gross, E.M., Johnson, R.L. & Hairston, N.G. (2001) Experimental evidence for changes in submersed macrophyte species composition caused by the herbivore Acentria ephemerella (Lepidoptera). Oecologia, 127, 105–114. [[Gross_et+al_ExperimentalEvidenceChangesSubmersedMacrophyte_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gross%2C%20E.M.%20Johnson%2C%20R.L.%20Hairston%2C%20N.G.%20Experimental%20evidence%20for%20changes%20in%20submersed%20macrophyte%20species%20composition%20caused%20by%20the%20herbivore%20Acentria%20ephemerella%20%28Lepidoptera%29%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gross%2C%20E.M.%20Johnson%2C%20R.L.%20Hairston%2C%20N.G.%20Experimental%20evidence%20for%20changes%20in%20submersed%20macrophyte%20species%20composition%20caused%20by%20the%20herbivore%20Acentria%20ephemerella%20%28Lepidoptera%29%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gross%2C%20E.M.%20Johnson%2C%20R.L.%20Hairston%2C%20N.G.%20Experimental%20evidence%20for%20changes%20in%20submersed%20macrophyte%20species%20composition%20caused%20by%20the%20herbivore%20Acentria%20ephemerella%20%28Lepidoptera%29%202001)

[^Hanley_et+al_1995_a]: Hanley, M.E., Fenner, M. & Edwards, P.J. (1995) An experimental field study of the effects of mollusk grazing on seedling recruitment and survival in grassland. J. Ecol., 83, 621–627. [[Hanley_et+al_ExperimentalFieldStudyEffectsMollusk_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hanley%2C%20M.E.%20Fenner%2C%20M.%20Edwards%2C%20P.J.%20An%20experimental%20field%20study%20of%20the%20effects%20of%20mollusk%20grazing%20on%20seedling%20recruitment%20and%20survival%20in%20grassland%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hanley%2C%20M.E.%20Fenner%2C%20M.%20Edwards%2C%20P.J.%20An%20experimental%20field%20study%20of%20the%20effects%20of%20mollusk%20grazing%20on%20seedling%20recruitment%20and%20survival%20in%20grassland%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hanley%2C%20M.E.%20Fenner%2C%20M.%20Edwards%2C%20P.J.%20An%20experimental%20field%20study%20of%20the%20effects%20of%20mollusk%20grazing%20on%20seedling%20recruitment%20and%20survival%20in%20grassland%201995)

[^Hay_1997_a]: Hay, M.E. (1997) The ecology and evolution of seaweed-herbivore interactions on coral reefs. Coral Reefs, 16, S67–S76. [[Hay_EcologyEvolutionSeaweedherbivoreInteractionsCoral_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hay%2C%20M.E.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20seaweed-herbivore%20interactions%20on%20coral%20reefs%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hay%2C%20M.E.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20seaweed-herbivore%20interactions%20on%20coral%20reefs%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hay%2C%20M.E.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20seaweed-herbivore%20interactions%20on%20coral%20reefs%201997)

[^Hay_1992_a]: Hay, M. & Steinberg, P. (1992) The chemical ecology of plantherbivore interactions in marine versus terrestrial communities. In: Herbivores: Their Interactions with Secondary Metabolites. Evolutionary and Ecological Processes (eds Rosenthal, G. & Berenbaum, M.). Academic Press, San Diego, CA, pp. 371–413. [[Hay_ChemicalEcologyPlantherbivoreInteractionsMarine_1992]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hay%2C%20M.%20Steinberg%2C%20P.%20The%20chemical%20ecology%20of%20plantherbivore%20interactions%20in%20marine%20versus%20terrestrial%20communities.%20In%3A%20Herbivores%3A%20Their%20Interactions%20with%20Secondary%20Metabolites.%20Evolutionary%20and%20Ecological%20Processes%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hay%2C%20M.%20Steinberg%2C%20P.%20The%20chemical%20ecology%20of%20plantherbivore%20interactions%20in%20marine%20versus%20terrestrial%20communities.%20In%3A%20Herbivores%3A%20Their%20Interactions%20with%20Secondary%20Metabolites.%20Evolutionary%20and%20Ecological%20Processes%201992) 

[^Hobbs_1981_a]: Hobbs, H.H. (1981) The Crayfishes of Georgia. Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC. [[Hobbs_CrayfishesGeorgia_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hobbs%2C%20H.H.%20The%20Crayfishes%20of%20Georgia%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hobbs%2C%20H.H.%20The%20Crayfishes%20of%20Georgia%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hobbs%2C%20H.H.%20The%20Crayfishes%20of%20Georgia%201981)

[^Hokkanen_1989_a]: Hokkanen, H.M.T. & Pimentel, D. (1989) New associations in biological control – theory and practice. Can. Entomol., 121, 829– 840. [[Hokkanen_AssociationsBiologicalControlTheory_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hokkanen%2C%20H.M.T.%20Pimentel%2C%20D.%20New%20associations%20in%20biological%20control%20%E2%80%93%20theory%20and%20practice%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hokkanen%2C%20H.M.T.%20Pimentel%2C%20D.%20New%20associations%20in%20biological%20control%20%E2%80%93%20theory%20and%20practice%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hokkanen%2C%20H.M.T.%20Pimentel%2C%20D.%20New%20associations%20in%20biological%20control%20%E2%80%93%20theory%20and%20practice%201989)

[^Keane_2002_a]: Keane, R.M. & Crawley, M.J. (2002) Exotic plant invasions and the enemy release hypothesis. Trends Ecol. Evol., 17, 164–170. [[Keane_ExoticPlantInvasionsEnemyRelease_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002)

[^Lankau_et+al_2004_a]: Lankau, R.A., Rogers, W.E. & Siemann, E. (2004) Constraints on the utilisation of the invasive Chinese tallow tree Sapium sebiferum by generalist native herbivores in coastal prairies. Ecol. Entomol., 29, 66–75. [[Lankau_et+al_ConstraintsUtilisationInvasiveChineseTallow_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lankau%2C%20R.A.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Siemann%2C%20E.%20Constraints%20on%20the%20utilisation%20of%20the%20invasive%20Chinese%20tallow%20tree%20Sapium%20sebiferum%20by%20generalist%20native%20herbivores%20in%20coastal%20prairies%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lankau%2C%20R.A.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Siemann%2C%20E.%20Constraints%20on%20the%20utilisation%20of%20the%20invasive%20Chinese%20tallow%20tree%20Sapium%20sebiferum%20by%20generalist%20native%20herbivores%20in%20coastal%20prairies%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lankau%2C%20R.A.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Siemann%2C%20E.%20Constraints%20on%20the%20utilisation%20of%20the%20invasive%20Chinese%20tallow%20tree%20Sapium%20sebiferum%20by%20generalist%20native%20herbivores%20in%20coastal%20prairies%202004)

[^Levine_et+al_2004_a]: Levine, J.M., Adler, P.B. & Yelenik, S.G. (2004) A meta-analysis of biotic resistance to exotic plant invasions. Ecol. Lett., 7, 975–989. [[Levine_et+al_MetaanalysisBioticResistanceExoticPlant_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Adler%2C%20P.B.%20Yelenik%2C%20S.G.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20biotic%20resistance%20to%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Adler%2C%20P.B.%20Yelenik%2C%20S.G.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20biotic%20resistance%20to%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Adler%2C%20P.B.%20Yelenik%2C%20S.G.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20biotic%20resistance%20to%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202004)

[^Lockwood_1993_a]: Lockwood, J.A. (1993) Benefits and costs of controlling rangeland grasshoppers (Orthoptera, Acrididae) with exotic organisms – search for a null hypothesis and regulatory compromise. Environ. Entomol., 22, 904–914. [[Lockwood_BenefitsCostsControllingRangelandGrasshoppers_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lockwood%2C%20J.A.%20Benefits%20and%20costs%20of%20controlling%20rangeland%20grasshoppers%20%28Orthoptera%2C%20Acrididae%29%20with%20exotic%20organisms%20%E2%80%93%20search%20for%20a%20null%20hypothesis%20and%20regulatory%20compromise%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lockwood%2C%20J.A.%20Benefits%20and%20costs%20of%20controlling%20rangeland%20grasshoppers%20%28Orthoptera%2C%20Acrididae%29%20with%20exotic%20organisms%20%E2%80%93%20search%20for%20a%20null%20hypothesis%20and%20regulatory%20compromise%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lockwood%2C%20J.A.%20Benefits%20and%20costs%20of%20controlling%20rangeland%20grasshoppers%20%28Orthoptera%2C%20Acrididae%29%20with%20exotic%20organisms%20%E2%80%93%20search%20for%20a%20null%20hypothesis%20and%20regulatory%20compromise%201993)

[^Lodge_1991_a]: Lodge, D.M. (1991) Herbivory on freshwater macrophytes. Aquat. Bot., 41, 195–224. [[Lodge_HerbivoryFreshwaterMacrophytes_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodge%2C%20D.M.%20Herbivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodge%2C%20D.M.%20Herbivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodge%2C%20D.M.%20Herbivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%201991)

[^Lodge_et+al_1998_a]: Lodge, D., Cronin, G., Donk, E.v. & Froelich, A. (1998) Impact of herbivory on plant standing crop: comparisons among biomes, between vascular and nonvascular plants, and among freshwater herbivore taxa. In: The Structuring Role of Submerged Macrophytes in Lakes (eds Jeppesen, E., Sondergaard, M., Sondergaard, M. & Christofferson, K.). Springer, New York, pp. 149–174. [[Lodge_et+al_ImpactHerbivoryPlantStandingCrop_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodge%2C%20D.%20Cronin%2C%20G.%20Donk%2C%20Ev%20Froelich%2C%20A.%20Impact%20of%20herbivory%20on%20plant%20standing%20crop%3A%20comparisons%20among%20biomes%2C%20between%20vascular%20and%20nonvascular%20plants%2C%20and%20among%20freshwater%20herbivore%20taxa.%20In%3A%20The%20Structuring%20Role%20of%20Submerged%20Macrophytes%20in%20Lakes%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodge%2C%20D.%20Cronin%2C%20G.%20Donk%2C%20Ev%20Froelich%2C%20A.%20Impact%20of%20herbivory%20on%20plant%20standing%20crop%3A%20comparisons%20among%20biomes%2C%20between%20vascular%20and%20nonvascular%20plants%2C%20and%20among%20freshwater%20herbivore%20taxa.%20In%3A%20The%20Structuring%20Role%20of%20Submerged%20Macrophytes%20in%20Lakes%201998) 

[^Lubchenco_1981_a]: Lubchenco, J. & Gaines, S. (1981) A unified approach to marine plant-herbivore interactions. I. Populations and communities. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst., 12, 405–437. [[Lubchenco_UnifiedApproachMarinePlantherbivoreInteractions_1981]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Gaines%2C%20S.%20A%20unified%20approach%20to%20marine%20plant-herbivore%20interactions%201981) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Gaines%2C%20S.%20A%20unified%20approach%20to%20marine%20plant-herbivore%20interactions%201981) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lubchenco%2C%20J.%20Gaines%2C%20S.%20A%20unified%20approach%20to%20marine%20plant-herbivore%20interactions%201981)

[^Mack_1996_a]: Mack, R.N. (1996) Predicting the identity and fate of plant invaders: emergent and emerging approaches. Biol. Conserv., 78, 107–121. [[Mack_PredictingIdentityFatePlantInvaders_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Predicting%20the%20identity%20and%20fate%20of%20plant%20invaders%3A%20emergent%20and%20emerging%20approaches%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Predicting%20the%20identity%20and%20fate%20of%20plant%20invaders%3A%20emergent%20and%20emerging%20approaches%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Predicting%20the%20identity%20and%20fate%20of%20plant%20invaders%3A%20emergent%20and%20emerging%20approaches%201996)

[^Maron_2001_a]: Maron, J.L. & Vila, M. (2001) When do herbivores affect plant invasion? Evidence for the natural enemies and biotic resistance hypotheses. Oikos, 95, 361–373. [[Maron_WhenHerbivoresAffectPlantInvasion_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20When%20do%20herbivores%20affect%20plant%20invasion%3F%20Evidence%20for%20the%20natural%20enemies%20and%20biotic%20resistance%20hypotheses%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20When%20do%20herbivores%20affect%20plant%20invasion%3F%20Evidence%20for%20the%20natural%20enemies%20and%20biotic%20resistance%20hypotheses%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20When%20do%20herbivores%20affect%20plant%20invasion%3F%20Evidence%20for%20the%20natural%20enemies%20and%20biotic%20resistance%20hypotheses%202001)

[^Mcknight_1995_a]: McKnight, S.K. & Hepp, G.R. (1995) Potential effect of grass carp herbivory on waterfowl foods. J. Wildl. Manage., 59, 720–727. [[Mcknight_PotentialEffectGrassCarpHerbivory_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=McKnight%2C%20S.K.%20Hepp%2C%20G.R.%20Potential%20effect%20of%20grass%20carp%20herbivory%20on%20waterfowl%20foods%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McKnight%2C%20S.K.%20Hepp%2C%20G.R.%20Potential%20effect%20of%20grass%20carp%20herbivory%20on%20waterfowl%20foods%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=McKnight%2C%20S.K.%20Hepp%2C%20G.R.%20Potential%20effect%20of%20grass%20carp%20herbivory%20on%20waterfowl%20foods%201995)

[^Mitchell_2003_a]: Mitchell, C.E. & Power, A.G. (2003) Release of invasive plants from fungal and viral pathogens. Nature, 421, 625–627. [[Mitchell_ReleaseInvasivePlantsFromFungal_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mitchell%2C%20C.E.%20Power%2C%20A.G.%20Release%20of%20invasive%20plants%20from%20fungal%20and%20viral%20pathogens%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mitchell%2C%20C.E.%20Power%2C%20A.G.%20Release%20of%20invasive%20plants%20from%20fungal%20and%20viral%20pathogens%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mitchell%2C%20C.E.%20Power%2C%20A.G.%20Release%20of%20invasive%20plants%20from%20fungal%20and%20viral%20pathogens%202003)

[^Nelson_1994_a]: Nelson, J.S. (1994) Fishes of the World. John Wiley and Sons, New York. [[Nelson_FishesWorld_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nelson%2C%20J.S.%20Fishes%20of%20the%20World%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nelson%2C%20J.S.%20Fishes%20of%20the%20World%201994) 

[^Newman_1991_a]: Newman, R.M. (1991) Herbivory and detritivory on freshwater macrophytes by invertebrates - a review. J. N. Am. Benthol. Soc., 10, 89–114. [[Newman_HerbivoryDetritivoryFreshwaterMacrophytesInvertebrates_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Herbivory%20and%20detritivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%20by%20invertebrates%20-%20a%20review%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Herbivory%20and%20detritivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%20by%20invertebrates%20-%20a%20review%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Herbivory%20and%20detritivory%20on%20freshwater%20macrophytes%20by%20invertebrates%20-%20a%20review%201991)

[^Otte_1975_a]: Otte, D. (1975) Plant preference and plant succession: a consideration of evolution and plant preference in Schistocerca. Oecologia, 18, 129–144. [[Otte_PlantPreferencePlantSuccessionConsideration_1975]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Otte%2C%20D.%20Plant%20preference%20and%20plant%20succession%3A%20a%20consideration%20of%20evolution%20and%20plant%20preference%20in%20Schistocerca%201975) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Otte%2C%20D.%20Plant%20preference%20and%20plant%20succession%3A%20a%20consideration%20of%20evolution%20and%20plant%20preference%20in%20Schistocerca%201975) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Otte%2C%20D.%20Plant%20preference%20and%20plant%20succession%3A%20a%20consideration%20of%20evolution%20and%20plant%20preference%20in%20Schistocerca%201975)

[^Rathcke_1985_a]: Rathcke, B. (1985) Slugs as generalist herbivores – tests of 3 hypotheses on plant choices. Ecology, 66, 828–836. [[Rathcke_SlugsGeneralistHerbivoresTests_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rathcke%2C%20B.%20Slugs%20as%20generalist%20herbivores%20%E2%80%93%20tests%20of%203%20hypotheses%20on%20plant%20choices%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rathcke%2C%20B.%20Slugs%20as%20generalist%20herbivores%20%E2%80%93%20tests%20of%203%20hypotheses%20on%20plant%20choices%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rathcke%2C%20B.%20Slugs%20as%20generalist%20herbivores%20%E2%80%93%20tests%20of%203%20hypotheses%20on%20plant%20choices%201985)

[^Rejmanek_1996_a]: Rejmanek, M. & Richardson, D.M. (1996) What attributes make some plant species more invasive? Ecology, 77, 1655–1661. [[Rejmanek_WhatAttributesMakeSomePlant_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rejmanek%2C%20M.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20What%20attributes%20make%20some%20plant%20species%20more%20invasive%3F%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rejmanek%2C%20M.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20What%20attributes%20make%20some%20plant%20species%20more%20invasive%3F%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rejmanek%2C%20M.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20What%20attributes%20make%20some%20plant%20species%20more%20invasive%3F%201996)

[^Schierenbeck_et+al_1994_a]: Schierenbeck, K.A., Mack, R.N. & Sharitz, R.R. (1994) Effects of herbivory on growth and biomass allocation in native and introduced species of Lonicera. Ecology, 75, 1661–1672. [[Schierenbeck_et+al_EffectsHerbivoryGrowthBiomassAllocation_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schierenbeck%2C%20K.A.%20Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Sharitz%2C%20R.R.%20Effects%20of%20herbivory%20on%20growth%20and%20biomass%20allocation%20in%20native%20and%20introduced%20species%20of%20Lonicera%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schierenbeck%2C%20K.A.%20Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Sharitz%2C%20R.R.%20Effects%20of%20herbivory%20on%20growth%20and%20biomass%20allocation%20in%20native%20and%20introduced%20species%20of%20Lonicera%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schierenbeck%2C%20K.A.%20Mack%2C%20R.N.%20Sharitz%2C%20R.R.%20Effects%20of%20herbivory%20on%20growth%20and%20biomass%20allocation%20in%20native%20and%20introduced%20species%20of%20Lonicera%201994)

[^Schmitz_1994_a]: Schmitz, O.J. (1994) Resource edibility and trophic exploitation in an old-field foodweb. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 91, 5364–5367. [[Schmitz_ResourceEdibilityTrophicExploitationfield_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Resource%20edibility%20and%20trophic%20exploitation%20in%20an%20old-field%20foodweb%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Resource%20edibility%20and%20trophic%20exploitation%20in%20an%20old-field%20foodweb%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Resource%20edibility%20and%20trophic%20exploitation%20in%20an%20old-field%20foodweb%201994)

[^Schmitz_1998_a]: Schmitz, O.J. (1998) Direct and indirect effects of predation and predation risk in old-field interaction webs. Am. Nat., 151, 327– 342. [[Schmitz_DirectIndirectEffectsPredationPredation_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Direct%20and%20indirect%20effects%20of%20predation%20and%20predation%20risk%20in%20old-field%20interaction%20webs%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Direct%20and%20indirect%20effects%20of%20predation%20and%20predation%20risk%20in%20old-field%20interaction%20webs%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schmitz%2C%20O.J.%20Direct%20and%20indirect%20effects%20of%20predation%20and%20predation%20risk%20in%20old-field%20interaction%20webs%201998)

[^Shea_2002_a]: Shea, K. & Chesson, P. (2002) Community ecology theory as a framework for biological invasions. Trends Ecol. Evol., 17, 170– 176. [[Shea_CommunityEcologyTheoryFrameworkBiological_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shea%2C%20K.%20Chesson%2C%20P.%20Community%20ecology%20theory%20as%20a%20framework%20for%20biological%20invasions%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shea%2C%20K.%20Chesson%2C%20P.%20Community%20ecology%20theory%20as%20a%20framework%20for%20biological%20invasions%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shea%2C%20K.%20Chesson%2C%20P.%20Community%20ecology%20theory%20as%20a%20framework%20for%20biological%20invasions%202002)

[^Siemann_2003_a]: Siemann, E. & Rogers, W.E. (2003) Herbivory, disease, recruitment limitation, and success of alien and native tree species. Ecology, 84, 1489–1505. [[Siemann_HerbivoryDiseaseRecruitmentLimitationSuccess_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Siemann%2C%20E.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Herbivory%2C%20disease%2C%20recruitment%20limitation%2C%20and%20success%20of%20alien%20and%20native%20tree%20species%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Siemann%2C%20E.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Herbivory%2C%20disease%2C%20recruitment%20limitation%2C%20and%20success%20of%20alien%20and%20native%20tree%20species%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Siemann%2C%20E.%20Rogers%2C%20W.E.%20Herbivory%2C%20disease%2C%20recruitment%20limitation%2C%20and%20success%20of%20alien%20and%20native%20tree%20species%202003)

[^Solarz_1996_a]: Solarz, S.L. & Newman, R.M. (1996) Oviposition specificity and behavior of the watermilfoil specialist Euhrychiopsis lecontei. Oecologia, 106, 337–344. [[Solarz_OvipositionSpecificityBehaviorWatermilfoilSpecialist_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Oviposition%20specificity%20and%20behavior%20of%20the%20watermilfoil%20specialist%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Oviposition%20specificity%20and%20behavior%20of%20the%20watermilfoil%20specialist%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Oviposition%20specificity%20and%20behavior%20of%20the%20watermilfoil%20specialist%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%201996)

[^Solarz_2001_a]: Solarz, S.L. & Newman, R.M. (2001) Variation in hostplant preference and performance by the milfoil weevil, Euhrychiopsis lecontei Dietz, exposed to native and exotic watermilfoils. Oecologia, 126, 66–75. [[Solarz_VariationHostplantPreferencePerformanceMilfoil_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Variation%20in%20hostplant%20preference%20and%20performance%20by%20the%20milfoil%20weevil%2C%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%20Dietz%2C%20exposed%20to%20native%20and%20exotic%20watermilfoils%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Variation%20in%20hostplant%20preference%20and%20performance%20by%20the%20milfoil%20weevil%2C%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%20Dietz%2C%20exposed%20to%20native%20and%20exotic%20watermilfoils%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Solarz%2C%20S.L.%20Newman%2C%20R.M.%20Variation%20in%20hostplant%20preference%20and%20performance%20by%20the%20milfoil%20weevil%2C%20Euhrychiopsis%20lecontei%20Dietz%2C%20exposed%20to%20native%20and%20exotic%20watermilfoils%202001)

[^Thomas_et+al_1987_a]: Thomas, C.D., Ng, D., Singer, M.C., Mallet, J.L.B., Parmesan, C. & Billington, H.L. (1987) Incorporation of a European weed into the diet of a North American herbivore. Evolution, 41, 892–901. [[Thomas_et+al_IncorporationEuropeanWeedIntoDiet_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thomas%2C%20C.D.%20Ng%2C%20D.%20Singer%2C%20M.C.%20Mallet%2C%20J.L.B.%20Incorporation%20of%20a%20European%20weed%20into%20the%20diet%20of%20a%20North%20American%20herbivore%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thomas%2C%20C.D.%20Ng%2C%20D.%20Singer%2C%20M.C.%20Mallet%2C%20J.L.B.%20Incorporation%20of%20a%20European%20weed%20into%20the%20diet%20of%20a%20North%20American%20herbivore%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thomas%2C%20C.D.%20Ng%2C%20D.%20Singer%2C%20M.C.%20Mallet%2C%20J.L.B.%20Incorporation%20of%20a%20European%20weed%20into%20the%20diet%20of%20a%20North%20American%20herbivore%201987)

[^Torchin_et+al_2003_a]: Torchin, M.E., Lafferty, K.D., Dobson, A.P., McKenzie, V.J. & Kuris, A.M. (2003) Introduced species and their missing parasites. Nature, 421, 628–630. [[Torchin_et+al_IntroducedSpeciesTheirMissingParasites_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Torchin%2C%20M.E.%20Lafferty%2C%20K.D.%20Dobson%2C%20A.P.%20McKenzie%2C%20V.J.%20Introduced%20species%20and%20their%20missing%20parasites%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Torchin%2C%20M.E.%20Lafferty%2C%20K.D.%20Dobson%2C%20A.P.%20McKenzie%2C%20V.J.%20Introduced%20species%20and%20their%20missing%20parasites%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Torchin%2C%20M.E.%20Lafferty%2C%20K.D.%20Dobson%2C%20A.P.%20McKenzie%2C%20V.J.%20Introduced%20species%20and%20their%20missing%20parasites%202003)

[^Trowbridge_2004_a]: Trowbridge, C.D. (2004) Emerging associations on marine rocky shores: specialist herbivores on introduced macroalgae. J. Anim. Ecol., 73, 294–308. [[Trowbridge_EmergingAssociationsMarineRockyShores_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Emerging%20associations%20on%20marine%20rocky%20shores%3A%20specialist%20herbivores%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Emerging%20associations%20on%20marine%20rocky%20shores%3A%20specialist%20herbivores%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Emerging%20associations%20on%20marine%20rocky%20shores%3A%20specialist%20herbivores%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202004)

[^Trowbridge_2001_a]: Trowbridge, C.D. & Todd, C.D. (2001) Host-plant change in marine specialist herbivores: Ascoglossan sea slugs on introduced macroalgae. Ecol. Monogr., 71, 219–243. [[Trowbridge_HostplantChangeMarineSpecialistHerbivores_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Todd%2C%20C.D.%20Host-plant%20change%20in%20marine%20specialist%20herbivores%3A%20Ascoglossan%20sea%20slugs%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Todd%2C%20C.D.%20Host-plant%20change%20in%20marine%20specialist%20herbivores%3A%20Ascoglossan%20sea%20slugs%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Trowbridge%2C%20C.D.%20Todd%2C%20C.D.%20Host-plant%20change%20in%20marine%20specialist%20herbivores%3A%20Ascoglossan%20sea%20slugs%20on%20introduced%20macroalgae%202001)

[^USDA_2004_a]: USDA (2004) The PLANTS Database, Version 3.5. Available at: http://plants.usda.gov. [[USDA_PlantsDatabase_2004]] [OA](http://plants.usda.gov)  

[^U_2005_a]: USGS (2005) Nonindigenous Aquatic Species Database. Available at: http://nas.er.usgs.gov. [[U_NonindigenousAquaticSpeciesDatabase_2005]] [OA](http://nas.er.usgs.gov)  

[^van_Donk_1996_a]: Van Donk, E. & Otte, A. (1996) Effects of grazing by fish and waterfowl on the biomass and species composition of submerged macrophytes. Hydrobiologia, 340, 285–290. [[van_Donk_EffectsGrazingFishWaterfowlBiomass_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20Donk%2C%20E.%20Otte%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20grazing%20by%20fish%20and%20waterfowl%20on%20the%20biomass%20and%20species%20composition%20of%20submerged%20macrophytes%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20Donk%2C%20E.%20Otte%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20grazing%20by%20fish%20and%20waterfowl%20on%20the%20biomass%20and%20species%20composition%20of%20submerged%20macrophytes%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20Donk%2C%20E.%20Otte%2C%20A.%20Effects%20of%20grazing%20by%20fish%20and%20waterfowl%20on%20the%20biomass%20and%20species%20composition%20of%20submerged%20macrophytes%201996)

[^Wolfe_2002_a]: Wolfe, L.M. (2002) Why alien invaders succeed: support for the escape-from-enemy hypothesis. Am. Nat., 160, 705–711. [[Wolfe_AlienInvadersSucceedSupportEscapefromenemy_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wolfe%2C%20L.M.%20Why%20alien%20invaders%20succeed%3A%20support%20for%20the%20escape-from-enemy%20hypothesis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wolfe%2C%20L.M.%20Why%20alien%20invaders%20succeed%3A%20support%20for%20the%20escape-from-enemy%20hypothesis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wolfe%2C%20L.M.%20Why%20alien%20invaders%20succeed%3A%20support%20for%20the%20escape-from-enemy%20hypothesis%202002)

[^Received_2005_a]: Editor, Rebecca Irwin Manuscript received 24 March 2005 First decision made 18 April 2005 Second decision made 13 May 2005 Manuscript accepted 18 May 2005 [[Received_FirstDecisionMade18April_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Editor%20Rebecca%20Irwin%20Manuscript%20received%2024%20March%202005%20First%20decision%20made%2018%20April%202005%20Second%20decision%20made%2013%20May%202005%20Manuscript%20accepted%2018%20May%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Editor%20Rebecca%20Irwin%20Manuscript%20received%2024%20March%202005%20First%20decision%20made%2018%20April%202005%20Second%20decision%20made%2013%20May%202005%20Manuscript%20accepted%2018%20May%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Editor%20Rebecca%20Irwin%20Manuscript%20received%2024%20March%202005%20First%20decision%20made%2018%20April%202005%20Second%20decision%20made%2013%20May%202005%20Manuscript%20accepted%2018%20May%202005)

