[[Chandra_FluxBalanceAnalysisBiologicalSystems_2009]]

# [Flux balance analysis of biological systems: applications and challenges](https://dx.doi.org/10.1093/bib/bbp011)

## [[K. Raman; N. Chandra]]

### 2009

## Abstract
Systems level modelling and simulations of biological processes are proving to be invaluable in obtaining a quantitative and dynamic perspective of various aspects of cellular function. In particular, constraint-based analyses of metabolic networks have gained considerable popularity for simulating cellular metabolism, of which flux balance analysis (FBA), is most widely used. ==Unlike mechanistic simulations that depend on accurate kinetic data==, which are ==scarcely available, FBA is based on the principle of conservation== of mass in a network, which utilizes the stoichiometric matrix and a biologically relevant objective function to identify optimal reaction flux distributions. FBA has been used to analyse genome-scale reconstructions of several organisms; it has also been used to analyse the effect of perturbations, such as gene deletions or drug inhibitions in silico. ==This article reviews the usefulness of FBA as a tool== for gaining biological insights, advances in methodology enabling integration of regulatory information and thermodynamic constraints, and finally addresses the challenges that lie ahead. Various use scenarios and ==biological insights obtained from FBA==, and applications in fields such metabolic engineering and drug target identification, are also discussed. Genome-scale ==constraint-based models have an immense potential for building and testing hypotheses==, as well as to guide experimentation.

## Key concepts
#claim/flux_balance_analysis; #claim/metabolic_network; #claim/objective_function; #metabolism; #escherichia; #escherichia_coli; #linear_programming; #metabolic_engineering; #claim/tuberculosis; #claim/biology; #quadratic_programming; #saccharomyces_cerevisiae; #claim/mycobacterium_tuberculosis; #biological_system; #drug_discovery; #mixed_integer_linear_programming; #cellular_metabolism; #transcriptional_regulation; #bacillus_subtilis; #haemophilus_influenzae; #K_12

## Quote
> Several challenges remain in the construction and analysis of constraint-based models, in terms of the accurate definition of the metabolic network, the various constraints, as well as the definition of biologically relevant objective functions


## Key points
- Systems biology, being a more holistic approach to study biological systems than the traditional reductionist approach, involves modelling and analysis of metabolic pathways, regulatory and signal transduction networks for understanding cellular behaviour
- This review focuses on flux balance analysis (FBA), a constraintbased approach for modelling metabolic networks
- In a study of the mycolic acid pathway in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, we have evaluated two different objective functions describing the production of mycolic acids, illustrating how the biology is better captured by an objective function that accounts for the production of one or more mycolates rather than one necessitating the production of all mycolates [^11]
- It may be very desirable to have genomescale mechanistic models of microbial systems, the lack of available metabolomic data and thermodynamic quantities has rendered the probability of achieving cell-scale kinetic models quite low [^71]
- Several challenges remain in the construction and analysis of constraint-based models, in terms of the accurate definition of the metabolic network, the various constraints, as well as the definition of biologically relevant objective functions
- It is very likely that constraint-based models will continue to grow in popularity and a wide spectrum of objective functions for analysis, with increasing biological relevance, will be used to enable various types of predictions on the capabilities of metabolic networks

## Synopsis

### INTRODUCTION
One specific example of metabolic modelling using a constraint-based approach is FBA, which uses linear optimization to determine the steady-state reaction flux distribution in a metabolic network by maximizing an objective function, such as ATP production or growth rate [^13].
The incorporation of the additional constraints results in an MILP problem, with a quadratic scoring function
Applying their method to the metabolic network of E. coli iJR904 [^40], they show that increasing network complexity entails increasing sensitivity of predicted flux distributions to variation of standard Gibb’s free energy changes and metabolite concentration ranges.
Prediction of gene deletion strategies for enhancing the production of specific metabolites has been reported using OptKnock [^7], [^41], which extends FBA to solve for the optimal flux distribution that simultaneously optimizes two objective functions, biomass growth as well as the secretion of a target metabolite, using a bi-level optimization technique.

### CONCLUSIONS
It may be very desirable to have genomescale mechanistic models of microbial systems, the lack of available metabolomic data and thermodynamic quantities has rendered the probability of achieving cell-scale kinetic models quite low [^71].
Constraint-based models, those using FBA, have filled in the void admirably, enabling analysis of several large systems, including entire GSMNs for prokaryotes [^32], [^55], [^72],[^73],[^74],[^75], eukaryotes [^10], [^76], [^77] and even the human [^43], [^44], with wide-ranging applications from metabolic engineering [^8], [^55], [^56] to drug discovery [^11].
It is very likely that constraint-based models will continue to grow in popularity and a wide spectrum of objective functions for analysis, with increasing biological relevance, will be used to enable various types of predictions on the capabilities of metabolic networks.
The integration of various types of models—kinetic, constraint-based and topological—to draw conclusions at various levels is another exciting challenge ahead of modelling in systems biology, which holds the key to many of the varied applications of systems biology

### Findings
A triple knock-out construct was identified that exhibited almost a 40% increase over an engineered high-producing parental strain [^8]

### Key Points
Flux balance analysis (FBA) is a powerful tool for the constraintbased analyses of metabolic networks, to identify steady state flux distributions and metabolic capabilities of biochemical networks.
Nagrath D, Avila-Elchiver M, Berthiaume F, et al Integrated energy and flux balance based multiobjective framework for large-scale metabolic networks.
Famili I, Forster J, Nielsen J, et al Saccharomyces cerevisiae phenotypes can be predicted by using constraint-based analysis of a genome-scale reconstructed metabolic network.
Forster J, Famili I, Fu P, et al Genome-scale reconstruction of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolic network.

## Findings
- For lycopene biosynthesis, a triple knock-out construct was identified that exhibited almost a 40% increase over an engineered high-producing parental strain [^8]

##  Builds on previous research
- The different objective functions for FBA have also been mathematically defined and illustrated well in [^24]. In a study of the mycolic acid pathway in Mycobacterium tuberculosis, ==we have evaluated two different objective functions describing the production of mycolic acids==, illustrating how the biology is better captured by an objective function that accounts for the production of one or more mycolates rather than one necessitating the production of all mycolates [^11]
- Qian and co-workers have proposed an alternative method, involving an energy balance analysis, through the imposition of non-linear constraints, which arise from the introduction of free energy changes into the constraints [^37]. The energy balance analysis was also able to explain some of the incorrect essentiality predictions by FBA, ==earlier reported for E==. coli [^38]
- A systematic network analysis has a potential to identify and potentially resolve gaps in the knowledge of metabolic networks. ==Predicting novel regulatory mechanisms Palsson and co-workers have described the analysis of an integrated model of metabolism and transcriptional regulation in S==. cerevisiae [^34]

## Contributions
- Although it may be very desirable to have genomescale mechanistic models of microbial systems, the lack of available metabolomic data and thermodynamic quantities has rendered the probability of achieving cell-scale kinetic models quite low [^71]. Constraint-based models, particularly those using FBA, have filled in the void admirably, enabling analysis of several large systems, including entire GSMNs for prokaryotes [^32], [^55], [^72],[^73],[^74],[^75], eukaryotes [^10], [^76], [^77] and even the human [^43], [^44], with wide-ranging applications from metabolic engineering [^8], [^55], [^56] to drug discovery [^11]. The potential of FBA for addressing several biological problems is now well-established, as evident from the number of reports in literature (Table 2). The stage seems all set to realize the promise in obtaining biological insights of chosen sets of proteins, in a systematic manner.<br/><br/>However, several challenges remain in the construction and analysis of constraint-based models, particularly in terms of the accurate definition of the metabolic network, the various constraints, as well as the definition of biologically relevant objective functions. It is very likely that constraint-based models will continue to grow in popularity and a wide spectrum of objective functions for analysis, with increasing biological relevance, will be used to enable various types of predictions on the capabilities of metabolic networks. There have already been interesting advances in the area of FBA, with the integration of regulatory information as well as signalling networks into the metabolic models. The integration of various types of models—kinetic, constraint-based and topological—to draw conclusions at various levels is another exciting challenge ahead of modelling in systems biology, which holds the key to many of the varied applications of systems biology.


## References
[^1]: Raman K, Rajagopalan P, Chandra N. Principles and practices of pathway modelling. Curr Bioinformatics 2006;1: 147–60. [[Raman_et+al_PrinciplesPracticesPathwayModelling_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Principles%20and%20practices%20of%20pathway%20modelling%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Principles%20and%20practices%20of%20pathway%20modelling%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Principles%20and%20practices%20of%20pathway%20modelling%202006)

[^2]: Stelling J. Mathematical models in microbial systems biology. Curr Opin Microbiol 2004;7:513–8. [[Stelling_MathematicalModelsMicrobialSystemsBiology_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Stelling%2C%20J.%20Mathematical%20models%20in%20microbial%20systems%20biology%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stelling%2C%20J.%20Mathematical%20models%20in%20microbial%20systems%20biology%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Stelling%2C%20J.%20Mathematical%20models%20in%20microbial%20systems%20biology%202004)

[^3]: Reed JL, Famili I, Thiele I, et al. Towards multidimensional genome annotation. Nat Rev Genet 2006;7:130–41. [[Reed_et+al_TowardsMultidimensionalGenomeAnnotation_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006)

[^4]: Price ND, Reed JL, Palsson BØ. Genome-scale models of microbial cells: evaluating the consequences of constraints. Nat Rev Microbiol 2004;2:886–97. [[Price_et+al_GenomescaleModelsMicrobialCellsEvaluating_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004)

[^5]: Feist AM, Herrgard MJ, Thiele I, et al. Reconstruction of biochemical networks in microorganisms. Nat Rev Microbiol 2009;7:129–43. [[Feist_et+al_ReconstructionBiochemicalNetworksMicroorganisms_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20of%20biochemical%20networks%20in%20microorganisms%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20of%20biochemical%20networks%20in%20microorganisms%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20of%20biochemical%20networks%20in%20microorganisms%202009)

[^6]: Covert MW, Schilling CH, Famili I, et al. Metabolic modeling of microbial strains in silico. Trends Biochemical Sci 2001;26:179–86. [[Covert_et+al_MetabolicModelingMicrobialStrainsSilico_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Metabolic%20modeling%20of%20microbial%20strains%20in%20silico%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Metabolic%20modeling%20of%20microbial%20strains%20in%20silico%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Metabolic%20modeling%20of%20microbial%20strains%20in%20silico%202001)

[^7]: Burgard AP, Pharkya P, Maranas CD. Optknock: a bilevel programming framework for identifying gene knockout strategies for microbial strain optimization. Biotechnol Bioeng 2003;84:647–57. [[Burgard_et+al_OptknockBilevelProgrammingFrameworkIdentifying_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optknock%3A%20a%20bilevel%20programming%20framework%20for%20identifying%20gene%20knockout%20strategies%20for%20microbial%20strain%20optimization%202003)

[^8]: Alper H, Jin Y-S, Moxley JF, et al. Identifying gene targets for the metabolic engineering of lycopene biosynthesis in Escherichia coli. Metab Eng 2005;7:155–64. [[Alper_et+al_IdentifyingGeneTargetsMetabolicEngineering_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Alper%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20Y.-S.%20Moxley%2C%20J.F.%20Identifying%20gene%20targets%20for%20the%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20lycopene%20biosynthesis%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Alper%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20Y.-S.%20Moxley%2C%20J.F.%20Identifying%20gene%20targets%20for%20the%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20lycopene%20biosynthesis%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Alper%2C%20H.%20Jin%2C%20Y.-S.%20Moxley%2C%20J.F.%20Identifying%20gene%20targets%20for%20the%20metabolic%20engineering%20of%20lycopene%20biosynthesis%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202005)

[^9]: Koffas MA, Jung GY, Stephanopoulos G. Engineering metabolism and product formation in Corynebacterium glutamicum by coordinated gene overexpression. Metab Eng 2003;5:32–41. [[Koffas_et+al_EngineeringMetabolismProductFormationCorynebacterium_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koffas%2C%20M.A.%20Jung%2C%20G.Y.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Engineering%20metabolism%20and%20product%20formation%20in%20Corynebacterium%20glutamicum%20by%20coordinated%20gene%20overexpression%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koffas%2C%20M.A.%20Jung%2C%20G.Y.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Engineering%20metabolism%20and%20product%20formation%20in%20Corynebacterium%20glutamicum%20by%20coordinated%20gene%20overexpression%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koffas%2C%20M.A.%20Jung%2C%20G.Y.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Engineering%20metabolism%20and%20product%20formation%20in%20Corynebacterium%20glutamicum%20by%20coordinated%20gene%20overexpression%202003)

[^10]: Duarte NC, Herrgard MJ, Palsson BØ. Reconstruction and validation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae iND750, a fully compartmentalized genome-scale metabolic model. Genome Res 2004;14:1298–309. [[Duarte_et+al_ReconstructionValidationSaccharomycesCerevisiaeInd750_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Reconstruction%20and%20validation%20of%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20iND750%2C%20a%20fully%20compartmentalized%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Reconstruction%20and%20validation%20of%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20iND750%2C%20a%20fully%20compartmentalized%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Reconstruction%20and%20validation%20of%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20iND750%2C%20a%20fully%20compartmentalized%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%202004)

[^11]: Raman K, Rajagopalan P, Chandra N. Flux balance analysis of mycolic acid pathway: targets for anti-tubercular drugs. PLoS Comput Biol 2005;1:e46. [[Raman_et+al_FluxBalanceAnalysisMycolicAcid_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20pathway%3A%20targets%20for%20anti-tubercular%20drugs%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20pathway%3A%20targets%20for%20anti-tubercular%20drugs%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20pathway%3A%20targets%20for%20anti-tubercular%20drugs%202005)

[^12]: Covert MW, Reed JL, Knight EM, et al. Integrating highthroughput and computational data elucidates bacterial networks. Nature 2004;429:92–6. [[Covert_et+al_IntegratingHighthroughputComputationalDataElucidates_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Knight%2C%20E.M.%20Integrating%20highthroughput%20and%20computational%20data%20elucidates%20bacterial%20networks%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Knight%2C%20E.M.%20Integrating%20highthroughput%20and%20computational%20data%20elucidates%20bacterial%20networks%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Knight%2C%20E.M.%20Integrating%20highthroughput%20and%20computational%20data%20elucidates%20bacterial%20networks%202004)

[^13]: Kauffman KJ, Prakash P, Edwards JS. Advances in flux balance analysis. Curr Opin Biotechnol 2003;14:491–6. [[Kauffman_et+al_AdvancesFluxBalanceAnalysis_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kauffman%2C%20K.J.%20Prakash%2C%20P.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Advances%20in%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kauffman%2C%20K.J.%20Prakash%2C%20P.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Advances%20in%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kauffman%2C%20K.J.%20Prakash%2C%20P.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Advances%20in%20flux%20balance%20analysis%202003)

[^14]: Bonarius HPJ, Schmid G, Tramper J. Flux analysis of underdetermined metabolic networks: the quest for the missing constraints. Trends Biotechnol 1997;15:308–14. [[Bonarius_et+al_FluxAnalysisUnderdeterminedMetabolicNetworks_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bonarius%2C%20H.P.J.%20Schmid%2C%20G.%20Tramper%2C%20J.%20Flux%20analysis%20of%20underdetermined%20metabolic%20networks%3A%20the%20quest%20for%20the%20missing%20constraints%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bonarius%2C%20H.P.J.%20Schmid%2C%20G.%20Tramper%2C%20J.%20Flux%20analysis%20of%20underdetermined%20metabolic%20networks%3A%20the%20quest%20for%20the%20missing%20constraints%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bonarius%2C%20H.P.J.%20Schmid%2C%20G.%20Tramper%2C%20J.%20Flux%20analysis%20of%20underdetermined%20metabolic%20networks%3A%20the%20quest%20for%20the%20missing%20constraints%201997)

[^15]: Segre D, Vitkup D, Church GM. Analysis of optimality in natural and perturbed metabolic networks. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002;99:15112–7. [[Segre_et+al__2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Segre%20D%20Vitkup%20D%20Church%20GM%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%20in%20natural%20and%20perturbed%20metabolic%20networks%20Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA%20200299151127) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Segre%20D%20Vitkup%20D%20Church%20GM%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%20in%20natural%20and%20perturbed%20metabolic%20networks%20Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA%20200299151127) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Segre%20D%20Vitkup%20D%20Church%20GM%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%20in%20natural%20and%20perturbed%20metabolic%20networks%20Proc%20Natl%20Acad%20Sci%20USA%20200299151127)

[^16]: Palsson BØ. Systems Biology-Properties of Reconstructed Networks. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006. [[Palsson_SystemsBiologypropertiesReconstructedNetworks_2006]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Systems%20Biology-Properties%20of%20Reconstructed%20Networks%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Systems%20Biology-Properties%20of%20Reconstructed%20Networks%202006) 

[^17]: Edwards JS, Ibarra RU, Palsson BØ. In silico predictions of Escherichia coli metabolic capabilities are consistent with experimental data. Nat Biotechnol 2001;19:125–30. [[Edwards_et+al_SilicoPredictionsEscherichiaColiMetabolic_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001)

[^18]: Deutscher D, Meilijson I, Kupiec M, et al. Multiple knockout analysis of genetic robustness in the yeast metabolic network. Nat Genet 2006;38:993–8. [[Deutscher_et+al_MultipleKnockoutAnalysisGeneticRobustness_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Deutscher%2C%20D.%20Meilijson%2C%20I.%20Kupiec%2C%20M.%20Multiple%20knockout%20analysis%20of%20genetic%20robustness%20in%20the%20yeast%20metabolic%20network%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Deutscher%2C%20D.%20Meilijson%2C%20I.%20Kupiec%2C%20M.%20Multiple%20knockout%20analysis%20of%20genetic%20robustness%20in%20the%20yeast%20metabolic%20network%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Deutscher%2C%20D.%20Meilijson%2C%20I.%20Kupiec%2C%20M.%20Multiple%20knockout%20analysis%20of%20genetic%20robustness%20in%20the%20yeast%20metabolic%20network%202006)

[^19]: Ibarra RU, Edwards JS, Palsson BO. Escherichia coli K-12 undergoes adaptive evolution to achieve in silico predicted optimal growth. Nature 2002;420:186–9. [[Ibarra_et+al_EscherichiaColiK12UndergoesAdaptive_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20undergoes%20adaptive%20evolution%20to%20achieve%20in%20silico%20predicted%20optimal%20growth%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20undergoes%20adaptive%20evolution%20to%20achieve%20in%20silico%20predicted%20optimal%20growth%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20undergoes%20adaptive%20evolution%20to%20achieve%20in%20silico%20predicted%20optimal%20growth%202002)

[^20]: Burgard AP, Maranas CD. Optimization-based framework for inferring and testing hypothesized metabolic objective functions. Biotechnol Bioeng 2003;82:670–7. [[Burgard_OptimizationbasedFrameworkInferringTestingHypothesized_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optimization-based%20framework%20for%20inferring%20and%20testing%20hypothesized%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optimization-based%20framework%20for%20inferring%20and%20testing%20hypothesized%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Optimization-based%20framework%20for%20inferring%20and%20testing%20hypothesized%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202003)

[^21]: Ramakrishna R, Edwards JS, McCulloch A, et al. Flux-balance analysis of mitochondrial energy metabolism: consequences of systemic stoichiometric constraints. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 2001;280: R695–704. [[Ramakrishna_et+al_FluxbalanceAnalysisMitochondrialEnergyMetabolism_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20McCulloch%2C%20A.%20Flux-balance%20analysis%20of%20mitochondrial%20energy%20metabolism%3A%20consequences%20of%20systemic%20stoichiometric%20constraints%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20McCulloch%2C%20A.%20Flux-balance%20analysis%20of%20mitochondrial%20energy%20metabolism%3A%20consequences%20of%20systemic%20stoichiometric%20constraints%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20McCulloch%2C%20A.%20Flux-balance%20analysis%20of%20mitochondrial%20energy%20metabolism%3A%20consequences%20of%20systemic%20stoichiometric%20constraints%202001)

[^22]: Vo TD, Greenberg HJ, Palsson BO. Reconstruction and functional characterization of the human mitochondrial metabolic network based on proteomic and biochemical data. J Biol Chem 2004;279:39532–40. [[Vo_et+al_ReconstructionFunctionalCharacterizationHumanMitochondrial_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Greenberg%2C%20H.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Reconstruction%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20human%20mitochondrial%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20proteomic%20and%20biochemical%20data%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Greenberg%2C%20H.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Reconstruction%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20human%20mitochondrial%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20proteomic%20and%20biochemical%20data%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Greenberg%2C%20H.J.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Reconstruction%20and%20functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20human%20mitochondrial%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20proteomic%20and%20biochemical%20data%202004)

[^23]: Edwards JS, Palsson BO. Robustness analysis of the Escherichia coli metabolic network. Biotechnol Prog 2000; 16:927–39. [[Edwards_RobustnessAnalysisEscherichiaColiMetabolic_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Robustness%20analysis%20of%20the%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20network%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Robustness%20analysis%20of%20the%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20network%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Robustness%20analysis%20of%20the%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20network%202000)

[^24]: Schuetz R, Kuepfer L, Sauer U. Systematic evaluation of objective functions for predicting intracellular fluxes in Escherichia coli. Mol Syst Biol 2007;3:119. [[Schuetz_et+al_SystematicEvaluationObjectiveFunctionsPredicting_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007)

[^25]: Becker SA, Feist AM, Mo ML, et al. Quantitative prediction of cellular metabolism with constraint-based models: the COBRA Toolbox. Nat Protocols 2007;2:727–38. [[Becker_et+al_QuantitativePredictionCellularMetabolismWith_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20Toolbox%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20Toolbox%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20Toolbox%202007)

[^26]: Papin JA, Price ND, Edwards JS, et al. The genome-scale metabolic extreme Pathway structure in Haemophilus influenzae shows significant network redundancy. J Theor Biol 2002;215:67–82. [[Papin_et+al_GenomescaleMetabolicExtremePathwayStructure_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20The%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20extreme%20Pathway%20structure%20in%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20shows%20significant%20network%20redundancy%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20The%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20extreme%20Pathway%20structure%20in%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20shows%20significant%20network%20redundancy%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20The%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20extreme%20Pathway%20structure%20in%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20shows%20significant%20network%20redundancy%202002)

[^27]: Segre D, Zucker J, Katz J, et al. From annotated genomes to metabolic flux models and kinetic parameter fitting. OMICS 2003;7:301–16. [[Segre_et+al_FromAnnotatedGenomesMetabolicFlux_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Segre%2C%20D.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Katz%2C%20J.%20From%20annotated%20genomes%20to%20metabolic%20flux%20models%20and%20kinetic%20parameter%20fitting%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Segre%2C%20D.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Katz%2C%20J.%20From%20annotated%20genomes%20to%20metabolic%20flux%20models%20and%20kinetic%20parameter%20fitting%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Segre%2C%20D.%20Zucker%2C%20J.%20Katz%2C%20J.%20From%20annotated%20genomes%20to%20metabolic%20flux%20models%20and%20kinetic%20parameter%20fitting%202003)

[^28]: Shlomi T, Berkman O, Ruppin E. Regulatory on/off minimization of metabolic flux changes after genetic perturbations. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2005;102:7695–700. [[Shlomi_et+al_RegulatoryMinimizationMetabolicFlux_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Berkman%2C%20O.%20Ruppin%2C%20E.%20Regulatory%20on/off%20minimization%20of%20metabolic%20flux%20changes%20after%20genetic%20perturbations%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Berkman%2C%20O.%20Ruppin%2C%20E.%20Regulatory%20on/off%20minimization%20of%20metabolic%20flux%20changes%20after%20genetic%20perturbations%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Berkman%2C%20O.%20Ruppin%2C%20E.%20Regulatory%20on/off%20minimization%20of%20metabolic%20flux%20changes%20after%20genetic%20perturbations%202005)

[^29]: Papp B, Pal C, Hurst LD. Metabolic network analysis of the causes and evolution of enzyme dispensability in yeast. Nature 2004;429:661–4. [[Papp_et+al_MetabolicNetworkAnalysisCausesEvolution_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Hurst%2C%20L.D.%20Metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20causes%20and%20evolution%20of%20enzyme%20dispensability%20in%20yeast%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Hurst%2C%20L.D.%20Metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20causes%20and%20evolution%20of%20enzyme%20dispensability%20in%20yeast%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Hurst%2C%20L.D.%20Metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20causes%20and%20evolution%20of%20enzyme%20dispensability%20in%20yeast%202004)

[^30]: Harrison R, Papp B, Pal C, et al. Plasticity of genetic interactions in metabolic networks of yeast. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2007;104:2307–12. [[Harrison_et+al_PlasticityGeneticInteractionsMetabolic_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20R.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Plasticity%20of%20genetic%20interactions%20in%20metabolic%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20R.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Plasticity%20of%20genetic%20interactions%20in%20metabolic%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20R.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Pal%2C%20C.%20Plasticity%20of%20genetic%20interactions%20in%20metabolic%202007)

[^31]: Covert MW, Palsson BO. Transcriptional regulation in constraints-based metabolic models of Escherichia coli. J Biol Chem 2002;277:28058–64. [[Covert_TranscriptionalRegulationConstraintsbasedMetabolicModels_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Transcriptional%20regulation%20in%20constraints-based%20metabolic%20models%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%202002)

[^32]: Beste DJV, Hooper T, Stewart G, et al. GSMN-TB: a webbased genome-scale network model of Mycobacterium tuberculosis metabolism. Genome Biol 2007;8:R89. [[Beste_et+al_GsmntbWebbasedGenomescaleNetworkModel_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beste%2C%20D.J.V.%20Hooper%2C%20T.%20Stewart%2C%20G.%20GSMN-TB%3A%20a%20webbased%20genome-scale%20network%20model%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20metabolism%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beste%2C%20D.J.V.%20Hooper%2C%20T.%20Stewart%2C%20G.%20GSMN-TB%3A%20a%20webbased%20genome-scale%20network%20model%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20metabolism%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beste%2C%20D.J.V.%20Hooper%2C%20T.%20Stewart%2C%20G.%20GSMN-TB%3A%20a%20webbased%20genome-scale%20network%20model%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20metabolism%202007)

[^33]: Covert MW, Schilling CH, Palsson BØ. Regulation of gene expression in flux balance models of metabolism. J Theor Biol 2001;213:73–88. [[Covert_et+al_RegulationGeneExpressionFluxBalance_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20flux%20balance%20models%20of%20metabolism%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20flux%20balance%20models%20of%20metabolism%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20flux%20balance%20models%20of%20metabolism%202001)

[^34]: Herrgard MJ, Lee BS, Portnoy V, et al. Integrated analysis of regulatory and metabolic networks reveals novel regulatory mechanisms in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Genome Res 2006; 16:627–35. [[Herrgard_et+al_IntegratedAnalysisRegulatoryMetabolicNetworks_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Lee%2C%20B.S.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.%20Integrated%20analysis%20of%20regulatory%20and%20metabolic%20networks%20reveals%20novel%20regulatory%20mechanisms%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Lee%2C%20B.S.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.%20Integrated%20analysis%20of%20regulatory%20and%20metabolic%20networks%20reveals%20novel%20regulatory%20mechanisms%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Herrgard%2C%20M.J.%20Lee%2C%20B.S.%20Portnoy%2C%20V.%20Integrated%20analysis%20of%20regulatory%20and%20metabolic%20networks%20reveals%20novel%20regulatory%20mechanisms%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202006)

[^35]: Covert MW, Palsson BØ. Constraints-based models: regulation of gene expression reduces the steady-state solution space. J Theor Biol 2003;221:309–25. [[Covert_ConstraintsbasedModelsRegulationGeneExpression_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Constraints-based%20models%3A%20regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20reduces%20the%20steady-state%20solution%20space%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Constraints-based%20models%3A%20regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20reduces%20the%20steady-state%20solution%20space%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Constraints-based%20models%3A%20regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20reduces%20the%20steady-state%20solution%20space%202003)

[^36]: Shlomi T, Eisenberg Y, Sharan R, et al. A genome-scale computational study of the interplay between transcriptional regulation and metabolism. Mol Syst Biol 2007;3:101. [[Shlomi_et+al_GenomescaleComputationalStudyInterplayBetween_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Eisenberg%2C%20Y.%20Sharan%2C%20R.%20A%20genome-scale%20computational%20study%20of%20the%20interplay%20between%20transcriptional%20regulation%20and%20metabolism%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Eisenberg%2C%20Y.%20Sharan%2C%20R.%20A%20genome-scale%20computational%20study%20of%20the%20interplay%20between%20transcriptional%20regulation%20and%20metabolism%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shlomi%2C%20T.%20Eisenberg%2C%20Y.%20Sharan%2C%20R.%20A%20genome-scale%20computational%20study%20of%20the%20interplay%20between%20transcriptional%20regulation%20and%20metabolism%202007)

[^37]: Beard DA, Liang SD, Qian H. Energy balance for analysis of complex metabolic networks. BiophysJ 2002;83: 79–86. [[Beard_et+al_EnergyBalanceAnalysisComplexMetabolic_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beard%2C%20D.A.%20Liang%2C%20S.D.%20Qian%2C%20H.%20Energy%20balance%20for%20analysis%20of%20complex%20metabolic%20networks%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beard%2C%20D.A.%20Liang%2C%20S.D.%20Qian%2C%20H.%20Energy%20balance%20for%20analysis%20of%20complex%20metabolic%20networks%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beard%2C%20D.A.%20Liang%2C%20S.D.%20Qian%2C%20H.%20Energy%20balance%20for%20analysis%20of%20complex%20metabolic%20networks%202002)

[^38]: Edwards JS, Palsson BØ. The Escherichia coli MG1655 in silico metabolic genotype: its definition, characteristics, and capabilities. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2000;97:5528–33. [[Edwards_EscherichiaColiMg1655SilicoMetabolic_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20The%20Escherichia%20coli%20MG1655%20in%20silico%20metabolic%20genotype%3A%20its%20definition%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20The%20Escherichia%20coli%20MG1655%20in%20silico%20metabolic%20genotype%3A%20its%20definition%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20The%20Escherichia%20coli%20MG1655%20in%20silico%20metabolic%20genotype%3A%20its%20definition%202000)

[^39]: Hoppe A, Hoffmann S, Holzhutter HG. Including metabolite concentrations into flux balance analysis: thermodynamic realizability as a constraint on flux distributions in metabolic networks. BMC Syst Biol 2007;1:23. [[Hoppe_et+al_IncludingMetaboliteConcentrationsIntoFlux_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Holzhutter%2C%20H.G.%20Including%20metabolite%20concentrations%20into%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3A%20thermodynamic%20realizability%20as%20a%20constraint%20on%20flux%20distributions%20in%20metabolic%20networks%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Holzhutter%2C%20H.G.%20Including%20metabolite%20concentrations%20into%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3A%20thermodynamic%20realizability%20as%20a%20constraint%20on%20flux%20distributions%20in%20metabolic%20networks%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hoppe%2C%20A.%20Hoffmann%2C%20S.%20Holzhutter%2C%20H.G.%20Including%20metabolite%20concentrations%20into%20flux%20balance%20analysis%3A%20thermodynamic%20realizability%20as%20a%20constraint%20on%20flux%20distributions%20in%20metabolic%20networks%202007)

[^40]: Reed JL, Vo TD, Schilling CH, et al. An expanded genome-scale model of Escherichia coli K-12 (iJR904 GSM/GPR). Genome Biol 2003;4:R54. [[Reed_et+al_ExpandedGenomescaleModelEscherichiaColi_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20An%20expanded%20genome-scale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20%28iJR904%20GSM/GPR%29%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20An%20expanded%20genome-scale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20%28iJR904%20GSM/GPR%29%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Vo%2C%20T.D.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20An%20expanded%20genome-scale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20%28iJR904%20GSM/GPR%29%202003)

[^41]: Pharkya P, Burgard AP, Maranas CD. Exploring the overproduction of amino acids using the bilevel optimization framework OptKnock. Biotechnol Bioeng 2003;84:887–99. [[Pharkya_et+al_ExploringOverproductionAminoAcidsUsing_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Exploring%20the%20overproduction%20of%20amino%20acids%20using%20the%20bilevel%20optimization%20framework%20OptKnock%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Exploring%20the%20overproduction%20of%20amino%20acids%20using%20the%20bilevel%20optimization%20framework%20OptKnock%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pharkya%2C%20P.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Maranas%2C%20C.D.%20Exploring%20the%20overproduction%20of%20amino%20acids%20using%20the%20bilevel%20optimization%20framework%20OptKnock%202003)

[^42]: Nagrath D, Avila-Elchiver M, Berthiaume F, et al. Integrated energy and flux balance based multiobjective framework for large-scale metabolic networks. Ann Biomed Eng 2007;35:863–85. [[Nagrath_et+al_IntegratedEnergyFluxBalanceBased_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nagrath%2C%20D.%20Avila-Elchiver%2C%20M.%20Berthiaume%2C%20F.%20Integrated%20energy%20and%20flux%20balance%20based%20multiobjective%20framework%20for%20large-scale%20metabolic%20networks%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nagrath%2C%20D.%20Avila-Elchiver%2C%20M.%20Berthiaume%2C%20F.%20Integrated%20energy%20and%20flux%20balance%20based%20multiobjective%20framework%20for%20large-scale%20metabolic%20networks%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nagrath%2C%20D.%20Avila-Elchiver%2C%20M.%20Berthiaume%2C%20F.%20Integrated%20energy%20and%20flux%20balance%20based%20multiobjective%20framework%20for%20large-scale%20metabolic%20networks%202007)

[^43]: Duarte NC, Becker SA, Jamshidi N, et al. Global reconstruction of the human metabolic network based on genomic and bibliomic data. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2007; 104:1777–82. [[Duarte_et+al_GlobalReconstructionHumanMetabolicNetwork_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007)

[^44]: Ma H-W, Sorokin A, Mazein A, et al. The Edinburgh human metabolic network reconstruction and its functional analysis. Mol Syst Biol 2007;3:135. [[Ma_et+al_EdinburghHumanMetabolicNetworkReconstruction_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ma%2C%20H.-W.%20Sorokin%2C%20A.%20Mazein%2C%20A.%20The%20Edinburgh%20human%20metabolic%20network%20reconstruction%20and%20its%20functional%20analysis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ma%2C%20H.-W.%20Sorokin%2C%20A.%20Mazein%2C%20A.%20The%20Edinburgh%20human%20metabolic%20network%20reconstruction%20and%20its%20functional%20analysis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ma%2C%20H.-W.%20Sorokin%2C%20A.%20Mazein%2C%20A.%20The%20Edinburgh%20human%20metabolic%20network%20reconstruction%20and%20its%20functional%20analysis%202007)

[^45]: Forster J, Famili I, Palsson BO, et al. Large-scale evaluation of in silico gene deletions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. OMICS 2003;7:193–202. [[Forster_et+al_LargescaleEvaluationSilicoGeneDeletions_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Large-scale%20evaluation%20of%20in%20silico%20gene%20deletions%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Large-scale%20evaluation%20of%20in%20silico%20gene%20deletions%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Large-scale%20evaluation%20of%20in%20silico%20gene%20deletions%20in%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%202003)

[^46]: Jamshidi N, Palsson BØ. Investigating the metabolic capabilities of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv using the in silico strain iNJ661 and proposing alternative drug targets. BMC Syst Biol 2007;1:26. [[Jamshidi_InvestigatingMetabolicCapabilitiesMycobacteriumTuberculosis_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Investigating%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20H37Rv%20using%20the%20in%20silico%20strain%20iNJ661%20and%20proposing%20alternative%20drug%20targets%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Investigating%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20H37Rv%20using%20the%20in%20silico%20strain%20iNJ661%20and%20proposing%20alternative%20drug%20targets%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Investigating%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20H37Rv%20using%20the%20in%20silico%20strain%20iNJ661%20and%20proposing%20alternative%20drug%20targets%202007)

[^47]: Schuster S, Dandekar T, Fell DA. Detection of elementary flux modes in biochemical networks: a promising tool for pathway analysis and metabolic engineering. Trends Biotechnol 1999;17:53–60. [[Schuster_et+al_DetectionElementaryFluxModesBiochemical_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schuster%2C%20S.%20Dandekar%2C%20T.%20Fell%2C%20D.A.%20Detection%20of%20elementary%20flux%20modes%20in%20biochemical%20networks%3A%20a%20promising%20tool%20for%20pathway%20analysis%20and%20metabolic%20engineering%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schuster%2C%20S.%20Dandekar%2C%20T.%20Fell%2C%20D.A.%20Detection%20of%20elementary%20flux%20modes%20in%20biochemical%20networks%3A%20a%20promising%20tool%20for%20pathway%20analysis%20and%20metabolic%20engineering%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schuster%2C%20S.%20Dandekar%2C%20T.%20Fell%2C%20D.A.%20Detection%20of%20elementary%20flux%20modes%20in%20biochemical%20networks%3A%20a%20promising%20tool%20for%20pathway%20analysis%20and%20metabolic%20engineering%201999)

[^48]: Schilling CH, Letscher D, Palsson BO. Theory for the systemic definition of metabolic pathways and their use in interpreting metabolic function from a pathway-oriented perspective. J Theor Biol 2000;203:229–48. [[Schilling_et+al_TheorySystemicDefinitionMetabolicPathways_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Letscher%2C%20D.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Theory%20for%20the%20systemic%20definition%20of%20metabolic%20pathways%20and%20their%20use%20in%20interpreting%20metabolic%20function%20from%20a%20pathway-oriented%20perspective%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Letscher%2C%20D.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Theory%20for%20the%20systemic%20definition%20of%20metabolic%20pathways%20and%20their%20use%20in%20interpreting%20metabolic%20function%20from%20a%20pathway-oriented%20perspective%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Letscher%2C%20D.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Theory%20for%20the%20systemic%20definition%20of%20metabolic%20pathways%20and%20their%20use%20in%20interpreting%20metabolic%20function%20from%20a%20pathway-oriented%20perspective%202000)

[^49]: Papin JA, Stelling J, Price ND, et al. Comparison of network-based pathway analysis methods. Trends Biotechnol 2004;22:400–5. [[Papin_et+al_ComparisonNetworkbasedPathwayAnalysisMethods_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Stelling%2C%20J.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Comparison%20of%20network-based%20pathway%20analysis%20methods%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Stelling%2C%20J.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Comparison%20of%20network-based%20pathway%20analysis%20methods%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Stelling%2C%20J.%20Price%2C%20N.D.%20Comparison%20of%20network-based%20pathway%20analysis%20methods%202004)

[^50]: Burgard AP, Nikolaev EV, Schilling CH, et al. Flux coupling analysis of genome-scale metabolic network reconstructions. Genome Res 2004;14:301–12. [[Burgard_et+al_FluxCouplingAnalysisGenomescaleMetabolic_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Nikolaev%2C%20E.V.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Flux%20coupling%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20network%20reconstructions%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Nikolaev%2C%20E.V.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Flux%20coupling%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20network%20reconstructions%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Nikolaev%2C%20E.V.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Flux%20coupling%20analysis%20of%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20network%20reconstructions%202004)

[^51]: Joyce AR, Palsson BO. Predicting gene essentiality using genome-scale in silico models. Methods Mol Biol 2008;416: 433–57. [[Joyce_PredictingGeneEssentialityUsingGenomescale_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Predicting%20gene%20essentiality%20using%20genome-scale%20in%20silico%20models%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Predicting%20gene%20essentiality%20using%20genome-scale%20in%20silico%20models%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Predicting%20gene%20essentiality%20using%20genome-scale%20in%20silico%20models%202008)

[^52]: Raman K, Kalidas Y, Chandra N. targetTB: a target identification pipeline for Mycobacterium tuberculosis through an interactome, reactome and genome-scale structural analysis. BMC Syst Biol 2008;2:109. [[Raman_et+al_TargettbTargetIdentificationPipelineMycobacterium_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Kalidas%2C%20Y.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20targetTB%3A%20a%20target%20identification%20pipeline%20for%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20through%20an%20interactome%2C%20reactome%20and%20genome-scale%20structural%20analysis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Raman%2C%20K.%20Kalidas%2C%20Y.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20targetTB%3A%20a%20target%20identification%20pipeline%20for%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20through%20an%20interactome%2C%20reactome%20and%20genome-scale%20structural%20analysis%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Kalidas%2C%20Y.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20targetTB%3A%20a%20target%20identification%20pipeline%20for%20Mycobacterium%20tuberculosis%20through%20an%20interactome%2C%20reactome%20and%20genome-scale%20structural%20analysis%202008)

[^53]: Raman K, Rajagopalan P, Chandra N. Hallmarks of mycolic acid biosynthesis: a comparative genomics study. Proteins 2007;69:358–68. [[Raman_et+al_HallmarksMycolicAcidBiosynthesisComparative_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Hallmarks%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20biosynthesis%3A%20a%20comparative%20genomics%20study%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Hallmarks%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20biosynthesis%3A%20a%20comparative%20genomics%20study%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Raman%2C%20K.%20Rajagopalan%2C%20P.%20Chandra%2C%20N.%20Hallmarks%20of%20mycolic%20acid%20biosynthesis%3A%20a%20comparative%20genomics%20study%202007)

[^54]: Gratraud P, Surolia N, Besra GS, et al. Antimycobacterial activity and mechanism of action of NAS-91. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2008;52:1162–6. [[Gratraud_et+al_AntimycobacterialActivityMechanismActionNas91_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gratraud%2C%20P.%20Surolia%2C%20N.%20Besra%2C%20G.S.%20Antimycobacterial%20activity%20and%20mechanism%20of%20action%20of%20NAS-91%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gratraud%2C%20P.%20Surolia%2C%20N.%20Besra%2C%20G.S.%20Antimycobacterial%20activity%20and%20mechanism%20of%20action%20of%20NAS-91%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gratraud%2C%20P.%20Surolia%2C%20N.%20Besra%2C%20G.S.%20Antimycobacterial%20activity%20and%20mechanism%20of%20action%20of%20NAS-91%202008)

[^55]: Puchalka J, Oberhardt MA, Godinho M, et al. Genomescale reconstruction and analysis of the Pseudomonas putida KT2440 metabolic network facilitates applications in biotechnology. PLoS Comput Biol 2008;4:e1000210. [[Puchalka_et+al_GenomescaleReconstructionAnalysisPseudomonasPutida_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Godinho%2C%20M.%20Genomescale%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20Pseudomonas%20putida%20KT2440%20metabolic%20network%20facilitates%20applications%20in%20biotechnology%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Godinho%2C%20M.%20Genomescale%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20Pseudomonas%20putida%20KT2440%20metabolic%20network%20facilitates%20applications%20in%20biotechnology%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Godinho%2C%20M.%20Genomescale%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20Pseudomonas%20putida%20KT2440%20metabolic%20network%20facilitates%20applications%20in%20biotechnology%202008)

[^56]: Koffas M, Stephanopoulos G. Strain improvement by metabolic engineering: lysine production as a case study for systems biology. Curr Opin Biotechnol 2005;16:361–6. [[Koffas_StrainImprovementMetabolicEngineeringLysine_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koffas%2C%20M.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Strain%20improvement%20by%20metabolic%20engineering%3A%20lysine%20production%20as%20a%20case%20study%20for%20systems%20biology%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koffas%2C%20M.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Strain%20improvement%20by%20metabolic%20engineering%3A%20lysine%20production%20as%20a%20case%20study%20for%20systems%20biology%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koffas%2C%20M.%20Stephanopoulos%2C%20G.%20Strain%20improvement%20by%20metabolic%20engineering%3A%20lysine%20production%20as%20a%20case%20study%20for%20systems%20biology%202005)

[^57]: Reed JL, Patel TR, Chen KH, et al. Systems approach to refining genome annotation. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2006; 103:17480–4. [[Reed_et+al_SystemsApproachRefiningGenomeAnnotation_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Patel%2C%20T.R.%20Chen%2C%20K.H.%20Systems%20approach%20to%20refining%20genome%20annotation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Patel%2C%20T.R.%20Chen%2C%20K.H.%20Systems%20approach%20to%20refining%20genome%20annotation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Patel%2C%20T.R.%20Chen%2C%20K.H.%20Systems%20approach%20to%20refining%20genome%20annotation%202006)

[^58]: Oberhardt MA, Puchalka J, Fryer KE, et al. Genomescale metabolic network analysis of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. J Bacteriol 2008; 190:2790–803. [[Oberhardt_et+al_GenomescaleMetabolicNetworkAnalysisOpportunistic_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Fryer%2C%20K.E.%20Genomescale%20metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20opportunistic%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20aeruginosa%20PAO1%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Fryer%2C%20K.E.%20Genomescale%20metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20opportunistic%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20aeruginosa%20PAO1%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Puchalka%2C%20J.%20Fryer%2C%20K.E.%20Genomescale%20metabolic%20network%20analysis%20of%20the%20opportunistic%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20aeruginosa%20PAO1%202008)

[^59]: Pinney JW, Papp B, Hyland C, et al. Metabolic reconstruction and analysis for parasite genomes. Trends Parasitol 2007; 23:548–54. [[Pinney_et+al_MetabolicReconstructionAnalysisParasiteGenomes_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pinney%2C%20J.W.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Hyland%2C%20C.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20for%20parasite%20genomes%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pinney%2C%20J.W.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Hyland%2C%20C.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20for%20parasite%20genomes%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pinney%2C%20J.W.%20Papp%2C%20B.%20Hyland%2C%20C.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20for%20parasite%20genomes%202007)

[^60]: Gianchandani EP, Oberhardt MA, Burgard AP, et al. Predicting biological system objectives de novo from internal state measurements. BMC Bioinformatics 2008;9:43. [[Gianchandani_et+al_PredictingBiologicalSystemObjectivesNovo_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Predicting%20biological%20system%20objectives%20de%20novo%20from%20internal%20state%20measurements%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Predicting%20biological%20system%20objectives%20de%20novo%20from%20internal%20state%20measurements%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Oberhardt%2C%20M.A.%20Burgard%2C%20A.P.%20Predicting%20biological%20system%20objectives%20de%20novo%20from%20internal%20state%20measurements%202008)

[^61]: Knorr AL, Jain R, Srivastava R. Bayesian-based selection of metabolic objective functions. Bioinformatics 2007;23: 351–7. [[Knorr_et+al_BayesianbasedSelectionMetabolicObjectiveFunctions_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007)

[^62]: Lee JM, Gianchandani EP, Papin JA. Flux balance analysis in the era of metabolomics. Brief Bioinform 2006;7: 140–50. [[Lee_et+al_FluxBalanceAnalysisMetabolomics_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006)

[^63]: Sauer U. High-throughput phenomics: experimental methods for mapping fluxomes. Curr Opin Biotechnol 2004; 15:58–63. [[Sauer_HighthroughputPhenomicsExperimentalMethodsMapping_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sauer%2C%20U.%20High-throughput%20phenomics%3A%20experimental%20methods%20for%20mapping%20fluxomes%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sauer%2C%20U.%20High-throughput%20phenomics%3A%20experimental%20methods%20for%20mapping%20fluxomes%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sauer%2C%20U.%20High-throughput%20phenomics%3A%20experimental%20methods%20for%20mapping%20fluxomes%202004)

[^64]: Sauer U. Metabolic networks in motion: 13C-based flux analysis. Mol Syst Biol 2006;2:62. [[Sauer_MetabolicNetworksMotion13cbasedFlux_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sauer%2C%20U.%20Metabolic%20networks%20in%20motion%3A%2013C-based%20flux%20analysis%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sauer%2C%20U.%20Metabolic%20networks%20in%20motion%3A%2013C-based%20flux%20analysis%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sauer%2C%20U.%20Metabolic%20networks%20in%20motion%3A%2013C-based%20flux%20analysis%202006)

[^65]: Fischer E, Sauer U. Large-scale in vivo flux analysis shows rigidity and suboptimal performance of Bacillus subtilis metabolism. Nat Genet 2005;37:636–40. [[Fischer_LargescaleVivoFluxAnalysisShows_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fischer%2C%20E.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%20in%20vivo%20flux%20analysis%20shows%20rigidity%20and%20suboptimal%20performance%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20metabolism%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fischer%2C%20E.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%20in%20vivo%20flux%20analysis%20shows%20rigidity%20and%20suboptimal%20performance%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20metabolism%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fischer%2C%20E.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%20in%20vivo%20flux%20analysis%20shows%20rigidity%20and%20suboptimal%20performance%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20metabolism%202005)

[^66]: Blank LM, Kuepfer L, Sauer U. Large-scale 13C-flux analysis reveals mechanistic principles of metabolic network robustness to null mutations in yeast. Genome Biol 2005;6: R49. [[Blank_et+al_Largescale13cfluxAnalysisRevealsMechanistic_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Blank%2C%20L.M.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%2013C-flux%20analysis%20reveals%20mechanistic%20principles%20of%20metabolic%20network%20robustness%20to%20null%20mutations%20in%20yeast%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Blank%2C%20L.M.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%2013C-flux%20analysis%20reveals%20mechanistic%20principles%20of%20metabolic%20network%20robustness%20to%20null%20mutations%20in%20yeast%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Blank%2C%20L.M.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Large-scale%2013C-flux%20analysis%20reveals%20mechanistic%20principles%20of%20metabolic%20network%20robustness%20to%20null%20mutations%20in%20yeast%202005)

[^67]: Choi HS, Kim TY, Lee DY, et al. Incorporating metabolic flux ratios into constraint-based flux analysis by using artificial metabolites and converging ratio determinants. J Biotechnol 2007;129:696–705. [[Choi_et+al_IncorporatingMetabolicFluxRatiosInto_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Choi%2C%20H.S.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Incorporating%20metabolic%20flux%20ratios%20into%20constraint-based%20flux%20analysis%20by%20using%20artificial%20metabolites%20and%20converging%20ratio%20determinants%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Choi%2C%20H.S.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Incorporating%20metabolic%20flux%20ratios%20into%20constraint-based%20flux%20analysis%20by%20using%20artificial%20metabolites%20and%20converging%20ratio%20determinants%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Choi%2C%20H.S.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Lee%2C%20D.Y.%20Incorporating%20metabolic%20flux%20ratios%20into%20constraint-based%20flux%20analysis%20by%20using%20artificial%20metabolites%20and%20converging%20ratio%20determinants%202007)

[^68]: Lee JM, Gianchandani EP, Eddy JA, et al. Dynamic analysis of integrated signaling, metabolic, and regulatory networks. PLoS Comput Biol 2008;4:e1000086. [[Lee_et+al_DynamicAnalysisIntegratedSignalingMetabolic_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Eddy%2C%20J.A.%20Dynamic%20analysis%20of%20integrated%20signaling%2C%20metabolic%2C%20and%20regulatory%20networks%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Eddy%2C%20J.A.%20Dynamic%20analysis%20of%20integrated%20signaling%2C%20metabolic%2C%20and%20regulatory%20networks%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Eddy%2C%20J.A.%20Dynamic%20analysis%20of%20integrated%20signaling%2C%20metabolic%2C%20and%20regulatory%20networks%202008)

[^69]: Covert MW, Xiao N, Chen TJ, et al. Integrating metabolic, transcriptional regulatory and signal transduction models in Escherichia coli. Bioinformatics 2008;24:2044–50. [[Covert_et+al_IntegratingMetabolicTranscriptionalRegulatorySignal_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Xiao%2C%20N.%20Chen%2C%20T.J.%20Integrating%20metabolic%2C%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20and%20signal%20transduction%20models%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Xiao%2C%20N.%20Chen%2C%20T.J.%20Integrating%20metabolic%2C%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20and%20signal%20transduction%20models%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Xiao%2C%20N.%20Chen%2C%20T.J.%20Integrating%20metabolic%2C%20transcriptional%20regulatory%20and%20signal%20transduction%20models%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202008)

[^70]: Kremling A, Bettenbrock K, Gilles ED. Analysis of global control of Escherichia coli carbohydrate uptake. BMC Syst Biol 2007;1:42. [[Kremling_et+al_AnalysisGlobalControlEscherichiaColi_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kremling%2C%20A.%20Bettenbrock%2C%20K.%20Gilles%2C%20E.D.%20Analysis%20of%20global%20control%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20carbohydrate%20uptake%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kremling%2C%20A.%20Bettenbrock%2C%20K.%20Gilles%2C%20E.D.%20Analysis%20of%20global%20control%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20carbohydrate%20uptake%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kremling%2C%20A.%20Bettenbrock%2C%20K.%20Gilles%2C%20E.D.%20Analysis%20of%20global%20control%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20carbohydrate%20uptake%202007)

[^71]: Jamshidi N, Palsson BO. Formulating genome-scale kinetic models in the post-genome era. Mol Syst Biol 2008;4:171. [[Jamshidi_FormulatingGenomescaleKineticModelsPostgenome_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Formulating%20genome-scale%20kinetic%20models%20in%20the%20post-genome%20era%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Formulating%20genome-scale%20kinetic%20models%20in%20the%20post-genome%20era%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Formulating%20genome-scale%20kinetic%20models%20in%20the%20post-genome%20era%202008)

[^72]: Feist AM, Henry CS, Reed JL, et al. A genome-scale metabolic reconstruction for Escherichia coli K-12 MG1655 that accounts for 1260 ORFs and thermodynamic information. Mol Syst Biol 2007;3:121. [[Feist_et+al_GenomescaleMetabolicReconstructionEscherichiaColi_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20A%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstruction%20for%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20MG1655%20that%20accounts%20for%201260%20ORFs%20and%20thermodynamic%20information%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20A%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstruction%20for%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20MG1655%20that%20accounts%20for%201260%20ORFs%20and%20thermodynamic%20information%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Henry%2C%20C.S.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20A%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20reconstruction%20for%20Escherichia%20coli%20K-12%20MG1655%20that%20accounts%20for%201260%20ORFs%20and%20thermodynamic%20information%202007)

[^73]: Oh Y-K, Palsson BØ, Park SM, et al. Genome-scale reconstruction of metabolic network in Bacillus subtilis based on high-throughput phenotyping and gene essentiality data. J Biol Chem 2007;282:28791–9. [[Oh_et+al_GenomescaleReconstructionMetabolicNetworkBacillus_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Oh%2C%20Y.-K.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Park%2C%20S.M.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20based%20on%20high-throughput%20phenotyping%20and%20gene%20essentiality%20data%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Oh%2C%20Y.-K.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Park%2C%20S.M.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20based%20on%20high-throughput%20phenotyping%20and%20gene%20essentiality%20data%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Oh%2C%20Y.-K.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Park%2C%20S.M.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Bacillus%20subtilis%20based%20on%20high-throughput%20phenotyping%20and%20gene%20essentiality%20data%202007)

[^74]: Feist AM, Scholten JCM, Palsson BØ, et al. Modeling methanogenesis with a genome-scale metabolic reconstruction of Methanosarcina barkeri. Mol Syst Biol 2006;2, doi:10.1038/msb4100046 [Epub ahead of print 31 January 2006]. [[Feist_et+al_ModelingMethanogenesisWithGenomescaleMetabolic_2006]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1038/msb4100046)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1038/msb4100046)

[^75]: Becker SA, Palsson BØ. Genome-scale reconstruction of the metabolic network in Staphylococcus aureus N315: an initial draft to the two-dimensional annotation. BMC Microbiol 2005;5:8. [[Becker_GenomescaleReconstructionMetabolicNetworkStaphylococcus_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Staphylococcus%20aureus%20N315%3A%20an%20initial%20draft%20to%20the%20two-dimensional%20annotation%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Staphylococcus%20aureus%20N315%3A%20an%20initial%20draft%20to%20the%20two-dimensional%20annotation%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20metabolic%20network%20in%20Staphylococcus%20aureus%20N315%3A%20an%20initial%20draft%20to%20the%20two-dimensional%20annotation%202005)

[^76]: Famili I, Forster J, Nielsen J, et al. Saccharomyces cerevisiae phenotypes can be predicted by using constraint-based analysis of a genome-scale reconstructed metabolic network. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2003;100:13134–9. [[Famili_et+al_SaccharomycesCerevisiaePhenotypesPredictedUsing_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Famili%2C%20I.%20Forster%2C%20J.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20phenotypes%20can%20be%20predicted%20by%20using%20constraint-based%20analysis%20of%20a%20genome-scale%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Famili%2C%20I.%20Forster%2C%20J.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20phenotypes%20can%20be%20predicted%20by%20using%20constraint-based%20analysis%20of%20a%20genome-scale%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Famili%2C%20I.%20Forster%2C%20J.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20phenotypes%20can%20be%20predicted%20by%20using%20constraint-based%20analysis%20of%20a%20genome-scale%202003)

[^77]: Forster J, Famili I, Fu P, et al. Genome-scale reconstruction of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolic network. Genome Res 2003;13:244–53. [[Forster_et+al_GenomescaleReconstructionSaccharomycesCerevisiaeMetabolic_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Fu%2C%20P.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20metabolic%20network%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Fu%2C%20P.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20metabolic%20network%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Forster%2C%20J.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Fu%2C%20P.%20Genome-scale%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20Saccharomyces%20cerevisiae%20metabolic%20network%202003)

[^78]: Edwards JS, Palsson BØ. Systems properties of the Haemophilus influenzae Rd metabolic genotype. J Biol Chem 1999;274:17410–6. [[Edwards_SystemsPropertiesHaemophilusInfluenzaeRd_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Systems%20properties%20of%20the%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20metabolic%20genotype%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Systems%20properties%20of%20the%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20metabolic%20genotype%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Systems%20properties%20of%20the%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20metabolic%20genotype%201999)

[^79]: Schilling CH, Palsson BØ. Assessment of the metabolic capabilities of Haemophilus influenzae Rd through a genomescale pathway analysis. J Theor Biol 2000;203:249–83. [[Schilling_AssessmentMetabolicCapabilitiesHaemophilusInfluenzae_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Assessment%20of%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20through%20a%20genomescale%20pathway%20analysis%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Assessment%20of%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20through%20a%20genomescale%20pathway%20analysis%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%C3%98.%20Assessment%20of%20the%20metabolic%20capabilities%20of%20Haemophilus%20influenzae%20Rd%20through%20a%20genomescale%20pathway%20analysis%202000)

[^80]: Schilling CH, Covert MW, Famili I, et al. Genome-scale metabolic model of Helicobacter pylori 26695. J Bacteriol 2002;184:4582–93. [[Schilling_et+al_GenomescaleMetabolicModelHelicobacterPylori_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20of%20Helicobacter%20pylori%2026695%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20of%20Helicobacter%20pylori%2026695%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20Covert%2C%20M.W.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Genome-scale%20metabolic%20model%20of%20Helicobacter%20pylori%2026695%202002)

[^81]: Goelzer A, Brikci FB, Martin-Verstraete I, et al. Reconstruction and analysis of the genetic and metabolic regulatory networks of the central metabolism of Bacillus subtilis. BMC Syst Biol 2008;2:20. [[Goelzer_et+al_ReconstructionAnalysisGeneticMetabolicRegulatory_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Goelzer%2C%20A.%20Brikci%2C%20F.B.%20Martin-Verstraete%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20genetic%20and%20metabolic%20regulatory%20networks%20of%20the%20central%20metabolism%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Goelzer%2C%20A.%20Brikci%2C%20F.B.%20Martin-Verstraete%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20genetic%20and%20metabolic%20regulatory%20networks%20of%20the%20central%20metabolism%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Goelzer%2C%20A.%20Brikci%2C%20F.B.%20Martin-Verstraete%2C%20I.%20Reconstruction%20and%20analysis%20of%20the%20genetic%20and%20metabolic%20regulatory%20networks%20of%20the%20central%20metabolism%20of%20Bacillus%20subtilis%202008)

[^82]: Andersen MR, Nielsen ML, Nielsen J. Metabolic model integration of the bibliome, genome, metabolome and reactome of Aspergillus niger. Mol Syst Biol 2008;4:178.  [[Andersen_et+al_MetabolicModelIntegrationBibliomeGenome_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Andersen%2C%20M.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20M.L.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20model%20integration%20of%20the%20bibliome%2C%20genome%2C%20metabolome%20and%20reactome%20of%20Aspergillus%20niger%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Andersen%2C%20M.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20M.L.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20model%20integration%20of%20the%20bibliome%2C%20genome%2C%20metabolome%20and%20reactome%20of%20Aspergillus%20niger%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Andersen%2C%20M.R.%20Nielsen%2C%20M.L.%20Nielsen%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20model%20integration%20of%20the%20bibliome%2C%20genome%2C%20metabolome%20and%20reactome%20of%20Aspergillus%20niger%202008)

