[[Resendis-Antonio_et+al_MetabolicReconstructionModelingNitrogenFixation_2007]]

# [Metabolic Reconstruction and Modeling of Nitrogen Fixation in Rhizobium etli](https://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.0030192)

## [[Osbaldo Resendis-Antonio]]; [[Jennifer L Reed]]; [[Sergio Encarnación]] et al.

### 2007

## Abstract
Rhizobiaceas are bacteria that fix nitrogen during symbiosis with plants. This symbiotic relationship is crucial for the nitrogen cycle, and understanding symbiotic mechanisms is a scientific challenge with direct applications in agronomy and plant development. Rhizobium etli is a bacteria which provides legumes with ammonia (among other chemical compounds), thereby stimulating plant growth. A genome-scale approach, integrating the biochemical information available for R. etli, constitutes an important step toward understanding the symbiotic relationship and its possible improvement. ==In this work we present a genome-scale metabolic reconstruction (iOR363) for R. etli CFN42, which includes 387 metabolic and transport reactions across 26 metabolic pathways==. This model was used to analyze the physiological capabilities of R. etli during stages of nitrogen fixation. To study the physiological capacities in silico, an objective function was formulated to simulate symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Flux balance analysis (FBA) was performed, and the predicted active metabolic pathways agreed qualitatively with experimental observations. In addition, predictions for the effects of gene deletions during nitrogen fixation in Rhizobia in silico also agreed with reported experimental data. ==Overall, we present some evidence supporting that FBA of the reconstructed metabolic network for R. etli provides results that are in agreement with physiological observations==. Thus, as for other organisms, the reconstructed genome-scale metabolic network provides an important framework which allows us to compare model predictions with experimental measurements and eventually generate hypotheses on ways to improve nitrogen fixation.

## Key concepts
#result/nitrogen_fixation; #result/objective_function; #claim/rhizobium; #method/flux_balance_analysis; #claim/gene_deletion; #result/rhizobium_etli; #result/ammonium; #claim/metabolic_network; #result/rhizobia; #result/bacteria; #result/symbiosis; #result/metabolism; #result/citrate_synthase; #result/bacterium; #result/bradyrhizobium_japonicum; #plant_development; #biology; #symbiotic_relationship; #result/escherichia_coli; #result/cystathionine_b_lyase; #result/cystathionine_beta_synthase

## Quote
> Metabolic Network in Rhizobium etli The metabolic reconstruction was generated from the KEGG annotated genome sequence for R. etli, journal publications, automated reconstruction databases, and information found in biochemical textbooks on nitrogen 7-11 fixation


## Key points
- 1-3 3 notes: Free-living bacteria belonging to the Rhizobium genera are often symbiots associated with plants of the family leguminosae
- E-mail: bpalsson@bioeng.ucsd. edu Nitrogen fixation is an important process for improving plant development in crops
- In this work we were interested in understanding nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium etli from a genome-scale perspective
- We built a model that was found to be in agreement with the general biochemical properties of Rhizobia, when it fixes nitrogen
- We propose that the metabolic reconstruction presented here can be useful as a theoretical template to understand and suggest a hypothesis for improving nitrogen fixation and its biochemical interaction with plants
- Metabolic Network in Rhizobium etli The metabolic reconstruction was generated from the KEGG annotated genome sequence for R. etli [^7], journal publications, automated reconstruction databases [^15], and information found in biochemical textbooks on nitrogen 7-11 fixation [^1]

## Synopsis

### Introduction
1-3 3 notes: Free-living bacteria belonging to the Rhizobium genera are often symbiots associated with plants of the family leguminosae.
The plant supplies carbon sources and glutamate to the bacteroid, while the bacteroid in turn provides the plant with ammonium, aspartate, and alanine [^5],[^6]
The exchange of these compounds creates a dependent symbiotic relationship between these two organisms whose effectiveness is essential to improving plant growth and bacterium survival.
Systemic understanding of nitrogen fixation in R. etli requires the construction of a model able to integrate genomic and high-throughput data in a hierarchical and coherent fashion [^9].
Integrative models of this sort constitute a powerful and elegant strategy to study the mechanism of cell behavior.

### Methods
Metabolomic flux prediction through the R. etli metabolic network was done using FBA [^12].
The authors assume that all the chemical compound concentrations and fluxes are at steady state.
To constrain the space of all the possible steady-state flux distributions, the authors impose stoichiometric mass balance constraints, thermodynamic constraints pertaining to reaction reversibility, and some enzyme capacity flux constraints [^12].
MOMA calculations were carried out as described previously [^35] using GAMS with only the metabolic and transport fluxes used in calculating the Euclidean distance; the exchange fluxes and OF values were omitted from the distance metric.
For the arginine deiminase mutant predictions, the following network modifications were made: ornithine carbamoyl transferase became reversible, an arginine–ornithine antiport reaction was included, and exchange fluxes for arginine and ornithine were added

### Results
Metabolic Network in Rhizobium etli The metabolic reconstruction was generated from the KEGG annotated genome sequence for R. etli [^7], journal publications, automated reconstruction databases [^15], and information found in biochemical textbooks on nitrogen 7-11 fixation [^1].
The authors' metabolic reconstruction includes 5 notes: reactions with evidence from the genome annotation or with clear experimental evidence for Rhizobia.
The resulting reconstructed metabolic network for R. etli includes 387 12 reactions involving 371 metabolites and 363 genes.
This reconstruction spans 26 metabolic pathways involving central Shawna Rowe metabolism (44 reactions), amino acids metabolism (136 reactions), purine and pyrimidine metabolism (89 reactions), PHB synthesis (8 reactions), and nitrogen metabolism (19 reactions).
The journal publications supporting the metabolic reconstruction are reported in Dataset S4.
The gap analysis of the metabolic reconstruction is reported in Dataset S5

### Discussion
The contributions of this work are the metabolic reconstruction of R. etli and the FBA of the resulting model during nitrogen fixation stages.
The construction of an OF that mimics symbiotic nitrogen fixation and qualitatively agrees with bacteroid physiology constitutes a substantial contribution in this work.
The authors' model consistently reproduces, in agreement with the literature, the utilization of pathways like oxidative phosphorylation, gluconeogenesis, and PHB biosynthesis during nitrogen fixation.
The analyzed gene deletion set was in qualitative agreement with the response of the experimentally observed symbiotic nitrogen fixation activity.
These particular gene deletions were selected because their effects on nitrogen fixation activity have been measured experimentally, allowing them to evaluate the computational

### Conclusion
Nitrogen fixation is an important process for improving plant development in crops.
Overall, it constitutes a central role in the nitrogen cycle which is essential to life.
In this work the authors were interested in understanding nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium etli from a genome-scale perspective.
The reconstructed metabolic network was used to analyze how this network is utilized during nitrogen fixation.
From this metabolic network, the authors built a model that was found to be in agreement with the general biochemical properties of Rhizobia, when it fixes nitrogen.
The authors propose that the metabolic reconstruction presented here can be useful as a theoretical template to understand and suggest a hypothesis for improving nitrogen fixation and its biochemical interaction with plants


## Study subjects

### 363 genes
- Thus, our metabolic reconstruction includes 5 notes: reactions with evidence from the genome annotation or with clear experimental evidence for Rhizobia. ==The resulting reconstructed metabolic network for R. etli includes 387 12 reactions involving 371 metabolites and 363 genes==. This reconstruction spans 26 metabolic pathways involving central Shawna Rowe metabolism (44 reactions), amino acids metabolism (136 reactions), purine and pyrimidine metabolism (89 reactions), PHB synthesis (8 reactions), and nitrogen metabolism (19 reactions)

### 363 genes
- These com-. ==The metabolic reconstruction for R. etli includes 26 metabolic pathways involving 363 genes and 383 metabolic reactions. doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.0030192.g002==. pounds serve as storage for carbon that can be used when others are not present [^20],[^21]

### 1000 cases
- A total of 1,000 different random OF were subsequently used individually in the gene deletion analysis. ==The qualitative effect of the gene deletions on symbiotic nitrogen fixation was independent of the OFs used; for example, in all 1,000 cases the deletion of PHB synthase increased symbiotic nitrogen fixation==. However, quantitative prediction of gene deletion effects was dependent on the chosen OF coefficients

## Findings
- By allowing the ornithine carbamoyl transferase reaction to be reversible and including an arginine–ornithine antiporter in the network, the symbiotic nitrogen fixation flux increased by more than 40% compared with the condition where arginine is not metabolized by the bacteroid (using iOR363)

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- These model results have been ==observed experimentally in an idhA mutant in Sinorhizobium fredii [^33]. The results obtained from simulations support the idea that myo-inositol catabolism plays an important role during nitrogen fixation==, not only at early stages of nodulation but during nitrogen fixation as well. 21 From a physiological point of view, there are some other possible explanations for reduced nitrogen fixation when the Shawna Rowe myo-inositol dehydrogenase enzyme is inactive
- It may be a consequence of toxic levels of myo-inositol or a consequence of insufficient concentrations of myo-inositol for growth and maturation of the bacteroid [^33]. Experimental data suggest that the essentiality of idhA is strain-dependent, and in this reconstruction ==we have included this metabolic pathway in agreement with the KEGG database== [^15]
- The simulations predict that the flux through PHB synthase increases in the glycogen synthase mutant, and, Shawna Rowe similarly, the flux through glycogen synthase increases in the PHB synthase mutant. ==These results are in agreement with experimental reports suggesting that the quantities of both polymers are relatively flexible such that inhibition of one results in an accumulation of the other== [^22], a property that is qualitatively observed in our in silico modeling

## Limitations
- Region II has dual substrate limitations. In this region an increase in the uptake rate of either succinate or oxygen will increase symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Finally, in region III, an increase in succinate uptake rate produces a decrease in the symbiotic nitrogen fixation, while an increase in oxygen uptake rate increases the OF in region III. Region III is defined as a futile region [^41]. The line of optimality represents the optimal relation between the substrate uptake rates and the OF. In this case, it lies on the boundary between regions I and II. Points on the line of optimality represent the optimal oxygen uptake required for the oxidation of succinate to maximize symbiotic nitrogen fixation [^45].


## References
[^1]: Dilworth MJ, Glenn AR (1991) Biology and biochemistry of nitrogen fixation. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science. [[Dilworth_BiologyBiochemistryNitrogenFixation_1991]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dilworth%2C%20M.J.%20Glenn%2C%20A.R.%20Biology%20and%20biochemistry%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dilworth%2C%20M.J.%20Glenn%2C%20A.R.%20Biology%20and%20biochemistry%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%201991) 

[^2]: Patriarca EJ, Tate R, Iaccarino M (2002) Key role of bacterial NH(4)(þ) metabolism in Rhizobium-plant symbiosis. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 66: 203– 222. [[Patriarca_et+al_RoleBacterialNh4MetabolismRhizobiumplant_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Patriarca%2C%20E.J.%20Tate%2C%20R.%20Iaccarino%2C%20M.%20Key%20role%20of%20bacterial%20NH%284%29%28%C3%BE%29%20metabolism%20in%20Rhizobium-plant%20symbiosis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Patriarca%2C%20E.J.%20Tate%2C%20R.%20Iaccarino%2C%20M.%20Key%20role%20of%20bacterial%20NH%284%29%28%C3%BE%29%20metabolism%20in%20Rhizobium-plant%20symbiosis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Patriarca%2C%20E.J.%20Tate%2C%20R.%20Iaccarino%2C%20M.%20Key%20role%20of%20bacterial%20NH%284%29%28%C3%BE%29%20metabolism%20in%20Rhizobium-plant%20symbiosis%202002)

[^3]: Dixon R, Kahn D (1994) Genetic regulation of nitrogen fixation. Nat Rev Microbiol 2: 621–631. [[Dixon_GeneticRegulationNitrogenFixation_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dixon%2C%20R.%20Kahn%2C%20D.%20Genetic%20regulation%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dixon%2C%20R.%20Kahn%2C%20D.%20Genetic%20regulation%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dixon%2C%20R.%20Kahn%2C%20D.%20Genetic%20regulation%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%201994)

[^4]: McNeill JR, Winiwarter V (2004) Breaking the sod: Humankind, history, and soil. Science 304: 1627–1629. [[Mcneill_BreakingHumankindHistorySoil_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=McNeill%2C%20JR%2C%20Winiwarter%20V.%20Breaking%20the%20sod%3A%20Humankind%2C%20history%2C%20and%20soil%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McNeill%2C%20JR%2C%20Winiwarter%20V.%20Breaking%20the%20sod%3A%20Humankind%2C%20history%2C%20and%20soil%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=McNeill%2C%20JR%2C%20Winiwarter%20V.%20Breaking%20the%20sod%3A%20Humankind%2C%20history%2C%20and%20soil%202004)

[^5]: Lodwig E, Poole P (2003) Metabolism of Rhizobium bacteroid. Crit Rev Plant Sci 22: 37–78. [[Lodwig_MetabolismRhizobiumBacteroid_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%202003)

[^6]: Prell J, Poole P (2006) Metabolic changes of rhizobia in legume nodules. Trends Microbiol 14: 161–168. [[Prell_MetabolicChangesRhizobiaLegumeNodules_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006)

[^7]: Gonzalez V, Santamaria RI, Bustos P, Hernandez-Gonzalez I, Medrano-Soto A, et al. (2006) The partitioned Rhizobium etli genome: Genetic and metabolic redundancy in seven interacting replicons. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 103: 3834–3839. [[Gonzalez_et+al_PartitionedRhizobiumEtliGenomeGenetic_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gonzalez%2C%20V.%20Santamaria%2C%20R.I.%20Bustos%2C%20P.%20Hernandez-Gonzalez%2C%20I.%20The%20partitioned%20Rhizobium%20etli%20genome%3A%20Genetic%20and%20metabolic%20redundancy%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gonzalez%2C%20V.%20Santamaria%2C%20R.I.%20Bustos%2C%20P.%20Hernandez-Gonzalez%2C%20I.%20The%20partitioned%20Rhizobium%20etli%20genome%3A%20Genetic%20and%20metabolic%20redundancy%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gonzalez%2C%20V.%20Santamaria%2C%20R.I.%20Bustos%2C%20P.%20Hernandez-Gonzalez%2C%20I.%20The%20partitioned%20Rhizobium%20etli%20genome%3A%20Genetic%20and%20metabolic%20redundancy%202006)

[^8]: Cosseau C, Garnerone AM, Batut J (2002) The fixM flavoprotein modulates inhibition by AICAR or 59AMP of respiratory and nitrogen fixation gene expression in Sinorhizobium meliloti. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 15: 598– 607. [[Cosseau_et+al_FixmFlavoproteinModulatesInhibitionAicar_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cosseau%2C%20C.%20Garnerone%2C%20A.M.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20The%20fixM%20flavoprotein%20modulates%20inhibition%20by%20AICAR%20or%2059AMP%20of%20respiratory%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cosseau%2C%20C.%20Garnerone%2C%20A.M.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20The%20fixM%20flavoprotein%20modulates%20inhibition%20by%20AICAR%20or%2059AMP%20of%20respiratory%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cosseau%2C%20C.%20Garnerone%2C%20A.M.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20The%20fixM%20flavoprotein%20modulates%20inhibition%20by%20AICAR%20or%2059AMP%20of%20respiratory%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202002)

[^9]: Palsson BO (2004) In silico biotechnology. Era of reconstruction and interrogation. Curr Opin Biotechnol 15: 50–51. [[Palsson_SilicoBiotechnologyEraReconstructionInterrogation_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20biotechnology.%20Era%20of%20reconstruction%20and%20interrogation%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20biotechnology.%20Era%20of%20reconstruction%20and%20interrogation%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20biotechnology.%20Era%20of%20reconstruction%20and%20interrogation%202004)

[^10]: Reed JL, Famili I, Thiele I, Palsson BO (2006) Towards multidimensional genome annotation. Nat Rev Genet 7: 130–141. [[Reed_et+al_TowardsMultidimensionalGenomeAnnotation_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Famili%2C%20I.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Towards%20multidimensional%20genome%20annotation%202006)

[^11]: Joyce AR, Palsson BO (2006) The model organism as a system: Integrating ‘‘omics’’ datasets. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 7: 198–210. [[Joyce_ModelOrganismSystemIntegratingomics_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20model%20organism%20as%20a%20system%3A%20Integrating%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98omics%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20datasets%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20model%20organism%20as%20a%20system%3A%20Integrating%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98omics%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20datasets%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Joyce%2C%20A.R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20The%20model%20organism%20as%20a%20system%3A%20Integrating%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98omics%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20datasets%202006)

[^12]: Price ND, Reed JL, Palsson BO (2004) Genome-scale models of microbial cells: Evaluating the consequences of constraints. Nat Rev Microbiol 2: 886– 897. [[Price_et+al_GenomescaleModelsMicrobialCellsEvaluating_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20Evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20Evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Price%2C%20N.D.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Genome-scale%20models%20of%20microbial%20cells%3A%20Evaluating%20the%20consequences%20of%20constraints%202004)

[^13]: Barrett CL, Kim TY, Kim HU, Palsson BO, Lee SY (2006) Systems biology as a foundation for genome-scale synthetic biology. Curr Opin Biotechnol 17: 488–492. [[Barrett_et+al_SystemsBiologyFoundationGenomescaleSynthetic_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barrett%2C%20C.L.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Kim%2C%20H.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Systems%20biology%20as%20a%20foundation%20for%20genome-scale%20synthetic%20biology%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barrett%2C%20C.L.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Kim%2C%20H.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Systems%20biology%20as%20a%20foundation%20for%20genome-scale%20synthetic%20biology%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barrett%2C%20C.L.%20Kim%2C%20T.Y.%20Kim%2C%20H.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Systems%20biology%20as%20a%20foundation%20for%20genome-scale%20synthetic%20biology%202006)

[^14]: Varma A, Palsson BO (1994) Stoichiometric flux balance models quantitatively predict growth and metabolic by-product secretion in wild-type Escherichia coli W3110. Appl Environ Microbiol 60: 3724–3731. [[Varma_StoichiometricFluxBalanceModelsQuantitatively_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Varma%2C%20A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Stoichiometric%20flux%20balance%20models%20quantitatively%20predict%20growth%20and%20metabolic%20by-product%20secretion%20in%20wild-type%20Escherichia%20coli%20W3110%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Varma%2C%20A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Stoichiometric%20flux%20balance%20models%20quantitatively%20predict%20growth%20and%20metabolic%20by-product%20secretion%20in%20wild-type%20Escherichia%20coli%20W3110%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Varma%2C%20A.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Stoichiometric%20flux%20balance%20models%20quantitatively%20predict%20growth%20and%20metabolic%20by-product%20secretion%20in%20wild-type%20Escherichia%20coli%20W3110%201994)

[^15]: Kanehisa M, Goto S, Hattori M, Aoki-Kinoshita KF, Itoh M, et al. (2006) From genomics to chemical genomics: New developments in KEGG. Nucleic Acids Res 34: D354–D357. [[Kanehisa_et+al_FromGenomicsChemicalGenomicsDevelopments_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20New%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20New%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20New%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006)

[^16]: Day DA, Poole PS, Tyerman SD, Rosendahl L (2001) Ammonia and amino acid transport across symbiotic membranes in nitrogen-fixing legume nodules. Cell Mol Life Sci 58: 61–71. [[Day_et+al_AmmoniaAminoAcidTransportAcross_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Day%2C%20D.A.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Ammonia%20and%20amino%20acid%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20legume%20nodules%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Day%2C%20D.A.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Ammonia%20and%20amino%20acid%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20legume%20nodules%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Day%2C%20D.A.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Ammonia%20and%20amino%20acid%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20legume%20nodules%202001)

[^17]: Sarma AD, Emerich DW (2005) Global protein expression pattern of Bradyrhizobium japonicum bacteroids: A prelude to functional proteomics. Proteomics 5: 4170–4184. [[Sarma_GlobalProteinExpressionPatternBradyrhizobium_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Global%20protein%20expression%20pattern%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20bacteroids%3A%20A%20prelude%20to%20functional%20proteomics%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Global%20protein%20expression%20pattern%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20bacteroids%3A%20A%20prelude%20to%20functional%20proteomics%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Global%20protein%20expression%20pattern%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20bacteroids%3A%20A%20prelude%20to%20functional%20proteomics%202005)

[^18]: Bergersen FJ, Turner GL (1990) Bacteroids from soybean root nodules: Accumulation of poly-b-hydroxybutyrate during supply of malate and succinate in relation to N 2 fixation in flow-chamber reactions. Proc R Soc Lond B 240: 39–59. [[Bergersen_BacteroidsFromSoybeanRootNodules_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Bacteroids%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%3A%20Accumulation%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20during%20supply%20of%20malate%20and%20succinate%20in%20relation%20to%20N%202%20fixation%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Bacteroids%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%3A%20Accumulation%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20during%20supply%20of%20malate%20and%20succinate%20in%20relation%20to%20N%202%20fixation%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Bacteroids%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%3A%20Accumulation%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20during%20supply%20of%20malate%20and%20succinate%20in%20relation%20to%20N%202%20fixation%201990)

[^19]: Lodwig EM, Leonard M, Marroqui S, Wheeler TR, Findlay K, et al. (2005) Role of polyhydroxybutyrate and glycogen as carbon storage compounds in pea and bean bacteroids. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 18: 67–74. [[Lodwig_et+al_RolePolyhydroxybutyrateGlycogenCarbonStorage_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Leonard%2C%20M.%20Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Wheeler%2C%20T.R.%20Role%20of%20polyhydroxybutyrate%20and%20glycogen%20as%20carbon%20storage%20compounds%20in%20pea%20and%20bean%20bacteroids%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Leonard%2C%20M.%20Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Wheeler%2C%20T.R.%20Role%20of%20polyhydroxybutyrate%20and%20glycogen%20as%20carbon%20storage%20compounds%20in%20pea%20and%20bean%20bacteroids%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Leonard%2C%20M.%20Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Wheeler%2C%20T.R.%20Role%20of%20polyhydroxybutyrate%20and%20glycogen%20as%20carbon%20storage%20compounds%20in%20pea%20and%20bean%20bacteroids%202005)

[^20]: Sarma AD, Emerich DW (2006) A comparative proteomic evaluation of culture grown versus nodule isolated Bradyrhizobium japonicum. Proteomics 6: 3008–3028. [[Sarma_ComparativeProteomicEvaluationCultureGrown_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20versus%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20versus%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20versus%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006)

[^21]: Trainer MA, Charles TC (2006) The role of PHB metabolism in the symbiosis of rhizobia with legumes. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 71: 377–386. [[Trainer_RolePhbMetabolismSymbiosisRhizobia_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Trainer%2C%20M.A.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20The%20role%20of%20PHB%20metabolism%20in%20the%20symbiosis%20of%20rhizobia%20with%20legumes%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Trainer%2C%20M.A.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20The%20role%20of%20PHB%20metabolism%20in%20the%20symbiosis%20of%20rhizobia%20with%20legumes%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Trainer%2C%20M.A.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20The%20role%20of%20PHB%20metabolism%20in%20the%20symbiosis%20of%20rhizobia%20with%20legumes%202006)

[^22]: Cevallos MA, Encarnacion S, Leija A, Mora Y, Mora J (1996) Genetic and physiological characterization of a Rhizobium etli mutant strain unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate. J Bacteriol 178: 1646–1654. [[Cevallos_et+al_GeneticPhysiologicalCharacterizationRhizobiumEtli_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996)

[^23]: Dunn M (1998) Tricarboxylic acid cycle and anaplerotic enzymes in rhizobia. FEMS Microbiol Rev 22: 105–123. [[Dunn_TricarboxylicAcidCycleAnapleroticEnzymes_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dunn%2C%20M.%20Tricarboxylic%20acid%20cycle%20and%20anaplerotic%20enzymes%20in%20rhizobia%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dunn%2C%20M.%20Tricarboxylic%20acid%20cycle%20and%20anaplerotic%20enzymes%20in%20rhizobia%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dunn%2C%20M.%20Tricarboxylic%20acid%20cycle%20and%20anaplerotic%20enzymes%20in%20rhizobia%201998)

[^24]: Batut J, Boistard P (1994) Oxygen control in Rhizobium. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 66: 129–150. [[Batut_OxygenControlRhizobium_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Batut%2C%20J.%20Boistard%2C%20P.%20Oxygen%20control%20in%20Rhizobium%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Batut%2C%20J.%20Boistard%2C%20P.%20Oxygen%20control%20in%20Rhizobium%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Batut%2C%20J.%20Boistard%2C%20P.%20Oxygen%20control%20in%20Rhizobium%201994)

[^25]: Bergersen FJ (1997) Physiological and biochemical aspects of nitrogen fixation by bacteroids in soybean nodule cells. Soil Biol Biochem 29: 875– 880. [[Bergersen_PhysiologicalBiochemicalAspectsNitrogenFixation_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Physiological%20and%20biochemical%20aspects%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroids%20in%20soybean%20nodule%20cells.%20Soil%20Biol%20Biochem%2029%3A%20875%E2%80%93%20880%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Physiological%20and%20biochemical%20aspects%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroids%20in%20soybean%20nodule%20cells.%20Soil%20Biol%20Biochem%2029%3A%20875%E2%80%93%20880%201997) 

[^26]: Soberon M, Lopez O, Morera C, Girard ML, Tabche ML, et al. (1999) Enhanced nitrogen fixation in a rhizobium etli ntrC mutant that overproduces the bradyrhizobium japonicum symbiotic terminal oxidase cbb3. Appl Environ Microbiol 65: 2015–2019. [[Soberon_et+al_EnhancedNitrogenFixationRhizobiumEtli_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Soberon%2C%20M.%20Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Girard%2C%20M.L.%20Enhanced%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20a%20rhizobium%20etli%20ntrC%20mutant%20that%20overproduces%20the%20bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20symbiotic%20terminal%20oxidase%20cbb3%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Soberon%2C%20M.%20Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Girard%2C%20M.L.%20Enhanced%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20a%20rhizobium%20etli%20ntrC%20mutant%20that%20overproduces%20the%20bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20symbiotic%20terminal%20oxidase%20cbb3%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Soberon%2C%20M.%20Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Girard%2C%20M.L.%20Enhanced%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20a%20rhizobium%20etli%20ntrC%20mutant%20that%20overproduces%20the%20bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20symbiotic%20terminal%20oxidase%20cbb3%201999)

[^27]: Lopez O, Morera C, Miranda-Rios J, Girard L, Romero D, et al. (2001) Regulation of gene expression in response to oxygen in Rhizobium etli: Role of FnrN in fixNOQP expression and in symbiotic nitrogen fixation. J Bacteriol 183: 6999–7006. [[Lopez_et+al_RegulationGeneExpressionResponseOxygen_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Miranda-Rios%2C%20J.%20Girard%2C%20L.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20response%20to%20oxygen%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Role%20of%20FnrN%20in%20fixNOQP%20expression%20and%20in%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Miranda-Rios%2C%20J.%20Girard%2C%20L.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20response%20to%20oxygen%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Role%20of%20FnrN%20in%20fixNOQP%20expression%20and%20in%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lopez%2C%20O.%20Morera%2C%20C.%20Miranda-Rios%2C%20J.%20Girard%2C%20L.%20Regulation%20of%20gene%20expression%20in%20response%20to%20oxygen%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Role%20of%20FnrN%20in%20fixNOQP%20expression%20and%20in%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202001)

[^28]: Green LS, Emerich DW (1997) The formation of nitrogen-fixing bacteroids is delayed but not abolished in soybean infected by an [alpha]-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase-deficient mutant of Bradyrhizobium japonicum. Plant Physiol 114: 1359–1368. [[Green_FormationNitrogenfixingBacteroidsDelayedAbolished_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Green%2C%20L.S.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20The%20formation%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%20is%20delayed%20but%20not%20abolished%20in%20soybean%20infected%20by%20an%20%5Balpha%5D-ketoglutarate%20dehydrogenase-deficient%20mutant%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Green%2C%20L.S.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20The%20formation%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%20is%20delayed%20but%20not%20abolished%20in%20soybean%20infected%20by%20an%20%5Balpha%5D-ketoglutarate%20dehydrogenase-deficient%20mutant%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Green%2C%20L.S.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20The%20formation%20of%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%20is%20delayed%20but%20not%20abolished%20in%20soybean%20infected%20by%20an%20%5Balpha%5D-ketoglutarate%20dehydrogenase-deficient%20mutant%20of%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%201997)

[^29]: Mahadevan R, Schilling CH (2003) The effects of alternate optimal solutions in constraint-based genome-scale metabolic models. Metab Eng 5: 264–276. [[Mahadevan_EffectsAlternateOptimalSolutionsConstraintbased_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mahadevan%2C%20R.%20Schilling%2C%20C.H.%20The%20effects%20of%20alternate%20optimal%20solutions%20in%20constraint-based%20genome-scale%20metabolic%20models%202003)

[^30]: Tate R, Ferraioli S, Filosa S, Cermola M, Riccio A, et al. (2004) Glutamine utilization by Rhizobium etli. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 17: 720–728. [[Tate_et+al_GlutamineUtilizationRhizobiumEtli_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tate%2C%20R.%20Ferraioli%2C%20S.%20Filosa%2C%20S.%20Cermola%2C%20M.%20Glutamine%20utilization%20by%20Rhizobium%20etli%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tate%2C%20R.%20Ferraioli%2C%20S.%20Filosa%2C%20S.%20Cermola%2C%20M.%20Glutamine%20utilization%20by%20Rhizobium%20etli%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tate%2C%20R.%20Ferraioli%2C%20S.%20Filosa%2C%20S.%20Cermola%2C%20M.%20Glutamine%20utilization%20by%20Rhizobium%20etli%202004)

[^31]: Castillo A, Taboada H, Mendoza A, Valderrama B, Encarnacion S, et al. (2000) Role of GOGAT in carbon and nitrogen partitioning in Rhizobium etli. Microbiology 146 (Part 7): 1627–1637. [[Castillo_et+al_RoleGogatCarbonNitrogenPartitioning_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Castillo%2C%20A.%20Taboada%2C%20H.%20Mendoza%2C%20A.%20Valderrama%2C%20B.%20Role%20of%20GOGAT%20in%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20partitioning%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli.%20Microbiology%20146%20%28Part%207%29%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Castillo%2C%20A.%20Taboada%2C%20H.%20Mendoza%2C%20A.%20Valderrama%2C%20B.%20Role%20of%20GOGAT%20in%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20partitioning%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli.%20Microbiology%20146%20%28Part%207%29%202000) 

[^32]: Mendoza A, Leija A, Martinez-Romero E, Hernandez G, Mora J (1995) The enhancement of ammonium assimilation in Rhizobium etli prevents nodulation of Phaseolus vulgaris. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 8: 584–592. [[Mendoza_et+al_EnhancementAmmoniumAssimilationRhizobiumEtli_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mendoza%2C%20A.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Martinez-Romero%2C%20E.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.%20The%20enhancement%20of%20ammonium%20assimilation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%20prevents%20nodulation%20of%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mendoza%2C%20A.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Martinez-Romero%2C%20E.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.%20The%20enhancement%20of%20ammonium%20assimilation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%20prevents%20nodulation%20of%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mendoza%2C%20A.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Martinez-Romero%2C%20E.%20Hernandez%2C%20G.%20The%20enhancement%20of%20ammonium%20assimilation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%20prevents%20nodulation%20of%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris%201995)

[^33]: Jiang G, Krishnan AH, Kim YW, Wacek TJ, Krishnan HB (2001) A functional myo-inositol dehydrogenase gene is required for efficient nitrogen fixation and competitiveness of Sinorhizobium fredii USDA191 to nodulate soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.). J Bacteriol 183: 2595–2604. [[Jiang_et+al_FunctionalinositolDehydrogenaseGeneRequired_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001)

[^34]: Fry J, Wood M, Poole PS (2001) Investigation of myo-inositol catabolism in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae and its effect on nodulation competitiveness. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 14: 1016–1025. [[Fry_et+al_InvestigationinositolCatabolismRhizobiumLeguminosarum_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fry%2C%20J.%20Wood%2C%20M.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Investigation%20of%20myo-inositol%20catabolism%20in%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv.%20viciae%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20nodulation%20competitiveness%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fry%2C%20J.%20Wood%2C%20M.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Investigation%20of%20myo-inositol%20catabolism%20in%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv.%20viciae%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20nodulation%20competitiveness%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fry%2C%20J.%20Wood%2C%20M.%20Poole%2C%20P.S.%20Investigation%20of%20myo-inositol%20catabolism%20in%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv.%20viciae%20and%20its%20effect%20on%20nodulation%20competitiveness%202001)

[^35]: Segre D, Vitkup D, Church GM (2002) Analysis of optimality in natural and perturbed metabolic networks. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99: 15112–15117. [[Segre_et+al_AnalysisOptimality_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Segre%2C%20D.%20Vitkup%2C%20D.%20Church%2C%20G.M.%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Segre%2C%20D.%20Vitkup%2C%20D.%20Church%2C%20G.M.%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Segre%2C%20D.%20Vitkup%2C%20D.%20Church%2C%20G.M.%20Analysis%20of%20optimality%202002)

[^36]: Marroqui S, Zorreguieta A, Santamaria C, Temprano F, Soberon M, et al. (2001) Enhanced symbiotic performance by Rhizobium tropici glycogen synthase mutants. J Bacteriol 183: 854–864. [[Marroqui_et+al_EnhancedSymbioticPerformanceRhizobiumTropici_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Zorreguieta%2C%20A.%20Santamaria%2C%20C.%20Temprano%2C%20F.%20Enhanced%20symbiotic%20performance%20by%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20glycogen%20synthase%20mutants%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Zorreguieta%2C%20A.%20Santamaria%2C%20C.%20Temprano%2C%20F.%20Enhanced%20symbiotic%20performance%20by%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20glycogen%20synthase%20mutants%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marroqui%2C%20S.%20Zorreguieta%2C%20A.%20Santamaria%2C%20C.%20Temprano%2C%20F.%20Enhanced%20symbiotic%20performance%20by%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20glycogen%20synthase%20mutants%202001)

[^37]: D’Hooghe I, Vander Wauven C, Michiels J, Tricot C, de Wilde P, et al. (1997) The arginine deiminase pathway in Rhizobium etli: DNA sequence analysis and functional study of the arcABC genes. J Bacteriol 179: 7403–7409. [[D_et+al_ArginineDeiminasePathwayRhizobiumEtli_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=D%E2%80%99Hooghe%2C%20I.%20Vander%20Wauven%2C%20C.%20Michiels%2C%20J.%20Tricot%2C%20C.%20The%20arginine%20deiminase%20pathway%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20DNA%20sequence%20analysis%20and%20functional%20study%20of%20the%20arcABC%20genes%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D%E2%80%99Hooghe%2C%20I.%20Vander%20Wauven%2C%20C.%20Michiels%2C%20J.%20Tricot%2C%20C.%20The%20arginine%20deiminase%20pathway%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20DNA%20sequence%20analysis%20and%20functional%20study%20of%20the%20arcABC%20genes%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=D%E2%80%99Hooghe%2C%20I.%20Vander%20Wauven%2C%20C.%20Michiels%2C%20J.%20Tricot%2C%20C.%20The%20arginine%20deiminase%20pathway%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20DNA%20sequence%20analysis%20and%20functional%20study%20of%20the%20arcABC%20genes%201997)

[^38]: Dunn MF, Araiza G, Cevallos MA, Mora J (1997) Regulation of pyruvate carboxylase in Rhizobium etli. FEMS Microbiol Lett 157: 301–306. [[Dunn_et+al_RegulationPyruvateCarboxylaseRhizobiumEtli_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Mora%2C%20J.%20Regulation%20of%20pyruvate%20carboxylase%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Mora%2C%20J.%20Regulation%20of%20pyruvate%20carboxylase%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Mora%2C%20J.%20Regulation%20of%20pyruvate%20carboxylase%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%201997)

[^39]: Dunn MF, Encarnacion S, Araiza G, Vargas MC, Davalos A, et al. (1996) Pyruvate carboxylase from Rhizobium etli: Mutant characterization, nucleotide sequence, and physiological role. J Bacteriol 178: 5960–5970. [[Dunn_et+al_PyruvateCarboxylaseFromRhizobiumEtli_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Vargas%2C%20M.C.%20Pyruvate%20carboxylase%20from%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Mutant%20characterization%2C%20nucleotide%20sequence%2C%20and%20physiological%20role%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Vargas%2C%20M.C.%20Pyruvate%20carboxylase%20from%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Mutant%20characterization%2C%20nucleotide%20sequence%2C%20and%20physiological%20role%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Araiza%2C%20G.%20Vargas%2C%20M.C.%20Pyruvate%20carboxylase%20from%20Rhizobium%20etli%3A%20Mutant%20characterization%2C%20nucleotide%20sequence%2C%20and%20physiological%20role%201996)

[^40]: Guillen-Navarro K, Encarnacion S, Dunn MF (2005) Biotin biosynthesis, transport and utilization in rhizobia. FEMS Microbiol Lett 246: 159–165. [[Guillen-Navarro_et+al_BiotinBiosynthesisTransportUtilizationRhizobia_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Guillen-Navarro%2C%20K.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Biotin%20biosynthesis%2C%20transport%20and%20utilization%20in%20rhizobia%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Guillen-Navarro%2C%20K.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Biotin%20biosynthesis%2C%20transport%20and%20utilization%20in%20rhizobia%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Guillen-Navarro%2C%20K.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Dunn%2C%20M.F.%20Biotin%20biosynthesis%2C%20transport%20and%20utilization%20in%20rhizobia%202005)

[^41]: Edwards JS, Ramakrishna R, Palsson BO (2002) Characterizing the metabolic phenotype: A phenotype phase plane analysis. Biotechnol Bioeng 77: 27–36. [[Edwards_et+al_CharacterizingMetabolicPhenotypePhenotypePhase_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Characterizing%20the%20metabolic%20phenotype%3A%20A%20phenotype%20phase%20plane%20analysis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Characterizing%20the%20metabolic%20phenotype%3A%20A%20phenotype%20phase%20plane%20analysis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ramakrishna%2C%20R.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20Characterizing%20the%20metabolic%20phenotype%3A%20A%20phenotype%20phase%20plane%20analysis%202002)

[^42]: Edwards JS, Ibarra RU, Palsson BO (2001) In silico predictions of Escherichia coli metabolic capabilities are consistent with experimental data. Nat Biotechnol 19: 125–130. [[Edwards_et+al_SilicoPredictionsEscherichiaColiMetabolic_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Ibarra%2C%20R.U.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20In%20silico%20predictions%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20metabolic%20capabilities%20are%20consistent%20with%20experimental%20data%202001)

[^43]: Wittenberg JB, Bergersen FJ, Appleby CA, Turner GL (1974) Facilitated oxygen diffusion. The role of leghemoglobin in nitrogen fixation by bacteroid isolated from soybean root nodules. J Biol Chem 249: 4057–4066. [[Wittenberg_et+al_FacilitatedOxygenDiffusionTheRole_1974]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wittenberg%2C%20J.B.%20Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Appleby%2C%20C.A.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Facilitated%20oxygen%20diffusion.%20The%20role%20of%20leghemoglobin%20in%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroid%20isolated%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%201974) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wittenberg%2C%20J.B.%20Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Appleby%2C%20C.A.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Facilitated%20oxygen%20diffusion.%20The%20role%20of%20leghemoglobin%20in%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroid%20isolated%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%201974) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wittenberg%2C%20J.B.%20Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Appleby%2C%20C.A.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Facilitated%20oxygen%20diffusion.%20The%20role%20of%20leghemoglobin%20in%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroid%20isolated%20from%20soybean%20root%20nodules%201974)

[^44]: Bergersen FJ, Turner GL (1992) Supply of O 2 regulates O 2 demand during utilization of reserves of poly-b-hydroxybutyrate in N 2 soybean bacteroids. Proc R Soc Lond B 249: 143–148. [[Bergersen_SupplyO2RegulatesO_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Supply%20of%20O%202%20regulates%20O%202%20demand%20during%20utilization%20of%20reserves%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20in%20N%202%20soybean%20bacteroids%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Supply%20of%20O%202%20regulates%20O%202%20demand%20during%20utilization%20of%20reserves%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20in%20N%202%20soybean%20bacteroids%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.J.%20Turner%2C%20G.L.%20Supply%20of%20O%202%20regulates%20O%202%20demand%20during%20utilization%20of%20reserves%20of%20poly-b-hydroxybutyrate%20in%20N%202%20soybean%20bacteroids%201992)

[^45]: Edwards JS, Covert M, Palsson B (2002) Metabolic modelling of microbes: The flux-balance approach. Environ Microbiol 4: 133–140. [[Edwards_et+al_MetabolicModellingMicrobesFluxbalanceApproach_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20The%20flux-balance%20approach%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20The%20flux-balance%20approach%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20The%20flux-balance%20approach%202002)

[^46]: Lodwig EM, Hosie AH, Bourdes A, Findlay K, Allaway D, et al. (2003) Amino-acid cycling drives nitrogen fixation in the legume-Rhizobium symbiosis. Nature 422: 722–726.  [[Lodwig_et+al_AminoacidCyclingDrivesNitrogenFixation_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Hosie%2C%20A.H.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Hosie%2C%20A.H.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.M.%20Hosie%2C%20A.H.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003)

