[[Schroeder-Moreno_et+al_MycorrhizalmediatedNitrogenAcquisitionSwitchgrassUnder_2011]]

# [Mycorrhizal-mediated nitrogen acquisition in switchgrass under elevated temperatures and N enrichment](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1757-1707.2011.01128.x)

## [[Michelle S. Schroeder-Moreno]]; [[Tara L. Greaver]]; [[Shuxin Wang]] et al.

### 2011

## Abstract
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) can perform key roles in ecosystem functioning through improving host nutrient acquisition. Nitrogen (N) is an essential nutrient for plant growth, however, anthropogenic N loading (e.g. crop fertilization and deposition from combustion sources) is increasing so that N now threatens ecosystem sustainability around the world by causing terrestrial and aquatic eutrophication and acidification. It is important to better understand the capacity of AMF to directly uptake N from soils and transfer it to host plants because this process may increase N recycling and retention within ecosystems. In addition to understanding the role of AMF in the N cycle in the present day it is important to understand how AMF function may change as global change proceeds. Currently the net effects of N enrichment and elevated temperature predicted with global change on AMF are unknown. ==In this study, we examined the effects of N enrichment by simulated Ndeposition loading, elevated temperatures expected by future global changes and their interactions on growth and AMF-mediated N acquisition of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum var==. Alamo), an important species for biofuel production. Switchgrass plants were grown in microcosm units that divided mycorrhizal roots from AMF hyphae and organic residues enriched with 15N by compartments separated by an air gap to reduce N diffusion. While AMF did not enhance switchgrass biomass, mycorrhizas significantly increased 15N in shoots and total shoot N. Neither N enrichment nor elevated temperatures influenced this mycorrhizal-mediated N uptake and transfer. Results from this study can aid in developing sustainable bioethanol and switchgrass production practices that are less reliant on synthetic fertilizers and more dependent on internal N recycling from AMF.

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal; #claim/global_change; #north_carolina_state_university; #organic_material; #environmental_protection_agency; #arbuscular_mycorrhizas; #symbiosis; #claim/panicum_virgatum; #finding/anthropogenic

## Quote
> This capacity of Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to recycle N within the system was not altered by N enrichment, elevated temperature or their net effects indicating this process may be resilient to future global change


## Key points
- Human activities, primarily through fossil fuel combustion and excessive fertilizer applications, have contributed to over 60% of the total global nitrogen oxides (NOx, defined as the category of pollutants known as nitrogen oxides included, but not limited to, NO, NO2, NO3, N2O) emissions ([^Olivier_et+al_1998_a]) and made anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading one of the leading threats to Earth’s ecosystems ([^Rockstrom_et+al_2009_a])
- The purpose of this study was to examine the interactive effects of low N inputs that simulated rates of atmospheric N deposition, elevated temperatures that simulate future global change predications, and inoculation with Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on host growth responses and mycorrhizal-meditated N uptake and transport
- Three-way MANOVA results revealed that switchgrass shoot and root dry weights were significantly increased by increasing temperature (Wilk’s k = 0.227, F2, 23 = 39.081, P 0.0001) and increasing N inputs (Wilk’s k = 0.654, F4, 46 = 2.716, P = 0.041), while inoculation with AMF significantly increased shoot dry weights and significantly decreased root dry weights overall (Wilk’s k = 0.756, F2, 23 = 3.710, P = 0.040)
- Separate three-way ANOVA results were similar to MANOVA results except that AMF did not significantly increase switchgrass shoot dry weights and N inputs did not significantly increase root dry weights at harvest (Table 1)
- This study indicates that AMF are important components of N cycling by relocating N from organic residues to host plants
- Primarily through fossil fuel combustion and excessive fertilizer applications, have contributed to over 60% of the total global nitrogen oxides (NOx, defined as the category of pollutants known as nitrogen oxides included, but not limited to, NO, NO2, NO3, N2O) emissions ([^Olivier_et+al_1998_a]) and made anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading one of the leading threats to Earth’s ecosystems ([^Rockstrom_et+al_2009_a])
- This capacity of AMF to recycle N within the system was not altered by N enrichment, elevated temperature or their net effects indicating this process may be resilient to future global change

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Primarily through fossil fuel combustion and excessive fertilizer applications, have contributed to over 60% of the total global nitrogen oxides (NOx, defined as the category of pollutants known as nitrogen oxides included, but not limited to, NO, NO2, NO3, N2O) emissions ([^Olivier_et+al_1998_a]) and made anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading one of the leading threats to Earth’s ecosystems ([^Rockstrom_et+al_2009_a]).
Because N is the limiting nutrient in most ecosystems, continuous N deposition inputs may increase primary productivity, but may modify plant species composition and reduce plant diversity through the Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are critical components of belowground community interactions and understanding their responses to global changes may help them predict ecosystem responses ([^Fitter_et+al_2004_a]).
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are ubiquitous across various ecosystems, comprising an estimated 1.4 Pg of dry biomass within roots globally ([^Treseder_2006_a]).
AMF extraradical mycelia likely comprise another additional 3 Pg of dry biomass in soils ([^Hodge_2010_a]).
Mycorrhizas primarily benefit plants through their extensive hyphal network, increasing the absorptive surface area and acquisition of poorly mobile soil nutrients, especially phosphorus ([^Smith_1997_a]</a>)

### Objectives
The purpose of this study was to examine the interactive effects of low N inputs that simulated rates of atmospheric N deposition, elevated temperatures that simulate future global change predications, and inoculation with AMF on host growth responses and mycorrhizal-meditated N uptake and transport

### Methods
Experimental design<br/><br/>The experiment was conducted in growth chambers (1.22 m 9 0.91 m 9 1.22 m, height, width, depth, respectively) in the Phytotron facility at in the North Carolina State University (NCSU) in Raleigh, NC, USA.
The design of this study was a three factor, fully factorial experiment consisting of three N application treatments (LOW N, MED N, HIGH N), two temperature treatments (AMBIENT and ELEVATED), and two AMF inoculation treatments (NO MYC and MYC) and three replicates.
The three replicates for this experiment occurred over three separate time periods in subsequent 12 week periods to minimize any variation between growth chambers.
Ambient and elevated temperature treatments consisted of 26/22°C and 30/26°C and were maintained throughout the experiment in two separate growth chambers.
LOW N, MED N, HIGH N application treatments in the form of NaNO3 solutions represented weekly additions equivalent to 8, 30 and 100 kg N haÀ1 yrÀ1 rates of N deposition.
The LOW N and MED N simulated N deposition equivalents to the Southeastern U.S and larger inputs in Northern England.
The HIGH N rate is larger than most current N deposition rates but simulates a low fertilization rate for switchgrass ([^Parrish_2005_a])

### Results
Three-way MANOVA results revealed that switchgrass shoot and root dry weights were significantly increased by increasing temperature (Wilk’s k = 0.227, F2, 23 = 39.081, P 0.0001) and increasing N inputs (Wilk’s k = 0.654, F4, 46 = 2.716, P = 0.041), while inoculation with AMF significantly increased shoot dry weights and significantly decreased root dry weights overall (Wilk’s k = 0.756, F2, 23 = 3.710, P = 0.040).
Separate three-way ANOVA results were similar to MANOVA results except that AMF did not significantly increase switchgrass shoot dry weights and N inputs did not significantly increase root dry weights at harvest (Table 1).
Elevated temperature increased shoot dry weights over 30% and root dry weights over 40% (Fig. 2).
Increased N increased shoot dry weights, while inoculation with AMF decreased root dry weights (Fig. 2).
N, and mycorrhizal treatments existed for any of the switchgrass biomass responses

### Conclusion
This study indicates that AMF are important components of N cycling by relocating N from organic residues to host plants.
This capacity of AMF to recycle N within the system was not altered by N enrichment, elevated temperature or their net effects indicating this process may be resilient to future global change.
The increased 15N in switchgrass shoots along with the Ambient temperature (26/22 °C) a a A b b a b B mg N kg–1 soil NO MYC.
MYC (b) a Elevated temperature (30/26 °C) a a.
Extractable inorganic soil N in HOST and RESIDUE compartments were analyzed separately by three-way ANOVAs for main treatment effects and interactions.
Bars with different letters are significantly different at P 0.05


## Study subjects

### 17 studies
- At the same time AMF may reduce N losses to systems; large N inputs can also negatively impact AMF structures and functioning. ==In a meta-analysis of 17 studies, [^Treseder_2004_a]) found N enrichment generally reduced AMF abundance and [^Egerton-Warburton_et+al_2007_a]) additionally found N inputs to modify AMF community structure and decrease species richness due to the loss of rare AMF species==. It is less clear, however, how N enrichment influences AMF functioning, such as AMF-mediated N uptake and transfer to hosts

### 4 AMF species
- Soil samples were set in trap cultures in greenhouse conditions at NCSU to isolate, identify, and increase AMF fungal propagules. ==Four AMF species were identified from the mixed inoculum according to the International Culture Collection of (Vesicular) Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (INVAM; http://invam.caf.wvu.edu) that included Gigospora margarita, Gi. rosea, Glomus clarum, and Scutellospora heterogama==. AMF inoculum consisted of culture media containing spores, hyphae, and colonized root fragments from these four AMF species

### 4 AMF species
- Four AMF species were identified from the mixed inoculum according to the International Culture Collection of (Vesicular) Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (INVAM; http://invam.caf.wvu.edu) that included Gigospora margarita, Gi. rosea, Glomus clarum, and Scutellospora heterogama. ==AMF inoculum consisted of culture media containing spores, hyphae, and colonized root fragments from these four AMF species==. The MYC treatments received the live AMF inoculum mixture while the NO MYC treatments received the same AMF inoculum mixture that was double autoclaved (with 24 h in between) plus a 50 mL microbial filtrate to ensure similar nutrient and soil microbiota characteristics to the MYC treatments

## Data analysis
- #method/multivariate_analysis_of_variance
- #method/MANOVA
- #method/tukey
- #method/two_way_anova

## Findings
- Human activities, primarily through fossil fuel combustion and excessive fertilizer applications, have contributed to over 60% of the total global nitrogen oxides (NOx, defined as the category of pollutants known as nitrogen oxides included, but not limited to, NO, NO2, NO3, N2O) emissions ([^Olivier_et+al_1998_a]) and made anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading one of the leading threats to Earth’s ecosystems ([^Rockstrom_et+al_2009_a])
- Three-way MANOVA results revealed that switchgrass shoot and root dry weights were significantly increased by increasing temperature (Wilk’s k = 0.227, F2, 23 = 39.081, P 0.0001) and increasing N inputs (Wilk’s k = 0.654, F4, 46 = 2.716, P = 0.041), while inoculation with AMF significantly increased shoot dry weights and significantly decreased root dry weights overall (Wilk’s k = 0.756, F2, 23 = 3.710, P = 0.040)
- Elevated temperature increased shoot dry weights over 30% and root dry weights over 40% (Fig. 2)
- Post hoc Tukey HSD tests showed that switchgrass shoot dry weights were significantly increased by HIGH N treatments compared to LOW N (P = 0.025) but there was no difference between HIGH N and the MED N treatments or LOW N and MED N treatments
- *P < 0.05, ***P < 0.001, ns, no significant differences
- Three-way MANOVA results revealed corn shoot and root dry weights were significantly increased by increasing temperature (Wilk’s k = 0.525, F2, 23 = 10.387, P = 0.001) while inoculation with AMF significantly decreased both corn shoot and root dry weights (Wilk’s k = 0.468, F2, 23 = 13.055, P 0.0001) after 2 weeks in the RESIDUE compartments
- N (results not shown), although there was a trend for MYC plants to have close to 20% lower shoot biomass
- AMF are estimated to act as a sink for up to 20% of host photosynthate ([^Smith_1997_a]; [^Graham_2000_a]), thus understanding how warming temperatures and net effects from N deposition impact the allocation of C from hosts to AMF is a key component to understanding soil C pools and AMF impacts on host nutrition
- In grassland microcosms, [^van_der_Heijden_2010_a]) found AMF treatments lost 60% less phosphorus and 7.5% less ammonium compared to control microcosms

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- Historically, AMF were considered to have an insignificant role in N uptake since N ions are highly mobile and move quickly to roots through mass flow ([^Tinker_2000_a]). ==Recent studies, however==, suggest that AMF have a larger impact on N cycling than previously recognized ([^Leigh_et+al_2009_a]; [^Hodge_2010_a])

## Future work
- Limited observations have reported AMF to proliferate in soil organic residues ([^St_et+al_1983_a]; [^Aristizabal_et+al_2004_a]</a>), additional research is needed to clarify the mechanisms responsible. Some have suggested AMF may be efficiently scavenging recently released mineral N ([^Aristizabal_et+al_2004_a]</a>) or enhancing decomposition through stimulating microbial activity ([^Secilia_1987_a]) more research is required to support these.
- Further studies are needed to understand mycorrhizal effects on switchgrass biomass production in field conditions and to develop sustainable best management practices that consider AMF.


## References
[^Antoninka_et+al_2009_a]: Antoninka A, Wolf JE, Bowker M, Classen AT, Johnson NC (2009) Linking aboveand belowground responses to global change at community and ecosystem scales. Global Change Biology, 15, 914–929. [[Antoninka_et+al_LinkingAboveandBelowgroundResponsesGlobal_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Antoninka%2C%20A.%20Wolf%2C%20J.E.%20Bowker%2C%20M.%20Classen%2C%20A.T.%20Linking%20aboveand%20belowground%20responses%20to%20global%20change%20at%20community%20and%20ecosystem%20scales%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Antoninka%2C%20A.%20Wolf%2C%20J.E.%20Bowker%2C%20M.%20Classen%2C%20A.T.%20Linking%20aboveand%20belowground%20responses%20to%20global%20change%20at%20community%20and%20ecosystem%20scales%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Antoninka%2C%20A.%20Wolf%2C%20J.E.%20Bowker%2C%20M.%20Classen%2C%20A.T.%20Linking%20aboveand%20belowground%20responses%20to%20global%20change%20at%20community%20and%20ecosystem%20scales%202009)

[^Aristizabal_et+al_2004_a]: Aristizabal C, Rivera EL, Janos DP (2004) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonize decomposing leaves of Myrica parvifolia, M. pubescens and Paepalanthus sp. Mycorrhiza, 14, 221–228. [[Aristizabal_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiColonizeDecomposing_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Aristizabal%2C%20C.%20Rivera%2C%20E.L.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20decomposing%20leaves%20of%20Myrica%20parvifolia%2C%20M.%20pubescens%20and%20Paepalanthus%20sp%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Aristizabal%2C%20C.%20Rivera%2C%20E.L.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20decomposing%20leaves%20of%20Myrica%20parvifolia%2C%20M.%20pubescens%20and%20Paepalanthus%20sp%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Aristizabal%2C%20C.%20Rivera%2C%20E.L.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20decomposing%20leaves%20of%20Myrica%20parvifolia%2C%20M.%20pubescens%20and%20Paepalanthus%20sp%202004)

[^Brejda_1996_a]: Brejda JJ (1996) Evaluation of arbuscular mycorrhiza populations for enhancing switchgrass yield and nutrient uptake. PhD Dissertation. Univ. Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln. [[Brejda_EvaluationArbuscularMycorrhizaPopulationsEnhancing_1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Evaluation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20populations%20for%20enhancing%20switchgrass%20yield%20and%20nutrient%20uptake.%20PhD%20Dissertation%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Evaluation%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%20populations%20for%20enhancing%20switchgrass%20yield%20and%20nutrient%20uptake.%20PhD%20Dissertation%201996) 

[^Brejda_2000_a]: Brejda JJ (2000) Fertilization of native warm-season grasses. In: Native Warm-Season Grasses: Research Trends and Issues (eds Moore KJ, Anderson BE), pp. 177–200. CSSA Spec. Publ. [[Brejda_FertilizationNativeWarmseasonGrassesIn_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Fertilization%20of%20native%20warm-season%20grasses.%20In%3A%20Native%20Warm-Season%20Grasses%3A%20Research%20Trends%20and%20Issues%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Fertilization%20of%20native%20warm-season%20grasses.%20In%3A%20Native%20Warm-Season%20Grasses%3A%20Research%20Trends%20and%20Issues%202000) 

[^Brejda_et+al_1998_a]: Brejda JJ, Moser LE, Vogel KP (1998) Evaluation of switchgrass rhizosphere microflora for enhancing yield and nutrient gain. Agronomy Journal, 90, 753–758. [[Brejda_et+al_EvaluationSwitchgrassRhizosphereMicrofloraEnhancing_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Vogel%2C%20K.P.%20Evaluation%20of%20switchgrass%20rhizosphere%20microflora%20for%20enhancing%20yield%20and%20nutrient%20gain%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Vogel%2C%20K.P.%20Evaluation%20of%20switchgrass%20rhizosphere%20microflora%20for%20enhancing%20yield%20and%20nutrient%20gain%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brejda%2C%20J.J.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Vogel%2C%20K.P.%20Evaluation%20of%20switchgrass%20rhizosphere%20microflora%20for%20enhancing%20yield%20and%20nutrient%20gain%201998)

[^Clark_2002_a]: Clark RB (2002) Differences among mycorrhizal fungi for mineral uptake per root length of switchgrass grown in acidic soil. Journal of Plant Nutrition, 25, 1753– 1772. [[Clark_DifferencesAmongMycorrhizalFungiMineral_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Clark%2C%20R.B.%20Differences%20among%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20for%20mineral%20uptake%20per%20root%20length%20of%20switchgrass%20grown%20in%20acidic%20soil%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Clark%2C%20R.B.%20Differences%20among%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20for%20mineral%20uptake%20per%20root%20length%20of%20switchgrass%20grown%20in%20acidic%20soil%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Clark%2C%20R.B.%20Differences%20among%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20for%20mineral%20uptake%20per%20root%20length%20of%20switchgrass%20grown%20in%20acidic%20soil%202002)

[^Egerton-Warburton_et+al_2007_a]: Egerton-Warburton LM, Johnson NC, Allen EB (2007) Mycorrhizal community dynamics following nitrogen fertilization: a cross-site test in five grasslands. Ecological Monographs, 77, 527–544. [[Egerton-Warburton_et+al_MycorrhizalCommunityDynamicsFollowingNitrogen_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Mycorrhizal%20community%20dynamics%20following%20nitrogen%20fertilization%3A%20a%20cross-site%20test%20in%20five%20grasslands%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Mycorrhizal%20community%20dynamics%20following%20nitrogen%20fertilization%3A%20a%20cross-site%20test%20in%20five%20grasslands%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Egerton-Warburton%2C%20L.M.%20Johnson%2C%20N.C.%20Allen%2C%20E.B.%20Mycorrhizal%20community%20dynamics%20following%20nitrogen%20fertilization%3A%20a%20cross-site%20test%20in%20five%20grasslands%202007)

[^Faber_et+al_1991_a]: Faber BA, Zasoski RJ, Munns DN, Shackel K (1991) A method for measuring hyphal nutrient and water uptake in mycorrhizal plants. Canadian Journal of Botany, 69, 87–94. [[Faber_et+al_MethodMeasuringHyphalNutrientWater_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Faber%2C%20B.A.%20Zasoski%2C%20R.J.%20Munns%2C%20D.N.%20Shackel%2C%20K.%20A%20method%20for%20measuring%20hyphal%20nutrient%20and%20water%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Faber%2C%20B.A.%20Zasoski%2C%20R.J.%20Munns%2C%20D.N.%20Shackel%2C%20K.%20A%20method%20for%20measuring%20hyphal%20nutrient%20and%20water%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Faber%2C%20B.A.%20Zasoski%2C%20R.J.%20Munns%2C%20D.N.%20Shackel%2C%20K.%20A%20method%20for%20measuring%20hyphal%20nutrient%20and%20water%20uptake%20in%20mycorrhizal%20plants%201991)

[^Fitter_et+al_2004_a]: Fitter AH, Heinemeyer A, Husband R, Olsen E, Ridgway KP, Staddon PL (2004) Global environmental change and the biology of arbuscular mycorrhizas: gaps and challenges. Canadian Journal of Botany, 82, 1133–1139. [[Fitter_et+al_GlobalEnvironmentalChangeBiologyArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Olsen%2C%20E.%20Global%20environmental%20change%20and%20the%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20gaps%20and%20challenges%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Olsen%2C%20E.%20Global%20environmental%20change%20and%20the%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20gaps%20and%20challenges%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Husband%2C%20R.%20Olsen%2C%20E.%20Global%20environmental%20change%20and%20the%20biology%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%3A%20gaps%20and%20challenges%202004)

[^Gavito_et+al_2005_a]: Gavito ME, Olsson PA, Rouhier H, Medina-Penafiel A, Jakobsen I, Bago A, AzconAguilar C (2005) Temperature constraints on the growth and functioning of root organ cultures with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytologist, 168, 179–188. [[Gavito_et+al_TemperatureConstraintsGrowthFunctioningRoot_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gavito%2C%20M.E.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Rouhier%2C%20H.%20Medina-Penafiel%2C%20A.%20Temperature%20constraints%20on%20the%20growth%20and%20functioning%20of%20root%20organ%20cultures%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gavito%2C%20M.E.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Rouhier%2C%20H.%20Medina-Penafiel%2C%20A.%20Temperature%20constraints%20on%20the%20growth%20and%20functioning%20of%20root%20organ%20cultures%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gavito%2C%20M.E.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Rouhier%2C%20H.%20Medina-Penafiel%2C%20A.%20Temperature%20constraints%20on%20the%20growth%20and%20functioning%20of%20root%20organ%20cultures%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202005)

[^Giovannetti_1980_a]: Giovannetti M, Mosse B (1980) An evaluation of techniques for measuring vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal infection in roots. New Phytologist, 84, 489–500. [[Giovannetti_EvaluationTechniquesMeasuringVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Mosse%2C%20B.%20An%20evaluation%20of%20techniques%20for%20measuring%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20in%20roots%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Mosse%2C%20B.%20An%20evaluation%20of%20techniques%20for%20measuring%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20in%20roots%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Giovannetti%2C%20M.%20Mosse%2C%20B.%20An%20evaluation%20of%20techniques%20for%20measuring%20vesiculararbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20infection%20in%20roots%201980)

[^Graham_2000_a]: Graham JH (2000) Assessing the cost of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis in agroecosystems. In: Current Advances in Mycorrhizal Research (eds Podila GK, Douds DD), pp. 127–140. The American Phytopathological Society, St. Paul, MN. [[Graham_AssessingCostArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Assessing%20the%20cost%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20agroecosystems%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Assessing%20the%20cost%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20agroecosystems%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Graham%2C%20J.H.%20Assessing%20the%20cost%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%20in%20agroecosystems%202000)

[^Hansen_et+al_2006_a]: Hansen J, Sato M, Ruedy R, Lo K, Lea DW, Medina-Elizade M (2006) Global temperature change. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 103, 14288–14293. [[Hansen_et+al__2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hansen%2C%20J.%20Sato%2C%20M.%20Ruedy%2C%20R.%20Lo%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hansen%2C%20J.%20Sato%2C%20M.%20Ruedy%2C%20R.%20Lo%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hansen%2C%20J.%20Sato%2C%20M.%20Ruedy%2C%20R.%20Lo%202006)

[^Hart_et+al_1994_a]: Hart SC, Stark JM, Davidson EA, Firestone MK (1994) Nitrogen mineralization, immobilization, and nitrification. In: Methods of Soil Analysis. Part 2: Microbiological and Biochemical Properties (eds Weaver RW, Angle S, Bottomley P, Bezdicek D, Smith S, Tabatabai A, Wollum A), pp. 985–1018. Soil Science Society of America Inc., Madison, WI. [[Hart_et+al_NitrogenMineralizationImmobilizationNitrificationIn_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hart%2C%20S.C.%20Stark%2C%20J.M.%20Davidson%2C%20E.A.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nitrogen%20mineralization%2C%20immobilization%2C%20and%20nitrification.%20In%3A%20Methods%20of%20Soil%20Analysis.%20Part%202%3A%20Microbiological%20and%20Biochemical%20Properties%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hart%2C%20S.C.%20Stark%2C%20J.M.%20Davidson%2C%20E.A.%20Firestone%2C%20M.K.%20Nitrogen%20mineralization%2C%20immobilization%2C%20and%20nitrification.%20In%3A%20Methods%20of%20Soil%20Analysis.%20Part%202%3A%20Microbiological%20and%20Biochemical%20Properties%201994) 

[^Hawkes_et+al_2008_a]: Hawkes CV, Hartley IP, Ineson P, Fitter AH (2008) Soil temperature affects C allocation within arbuscular mycorrhizal networks and C transport from plant to fungus. Global Change Biology, 14, 1181–1190. [[Hawkes_et+al_SoilTemperatureAffectsCAllocation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hawkes%2C%20C.V.%20Hartley%2C%20I.P.%20Ineson%2C%20P.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Soil%20temperature%20affects%20C%20allocation%20within%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20and%20C%20transport%20from%20plant%20to%20fungus%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hawkes%2C%20C.V.%20Hartley%2C%20I.P.%20Ineson%2C%20P.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Soil%20temperature%20affects%20C%20allocation%20within%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20and%20C%20transport%20from%20plant%20to%20fungus%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hawkes%2C%20C.V.%20Hartley%2C%20I.P.%20Ineson%2C%20P.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Soil%20temperature%20affects%20C%20allocation%20within%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20networks%20and%20C%20transport%20from%20plant%20to%20fungus%202008)

[^Hawkins_1999_a]: Hawkins HJ, George E (1999) Effect of plant nitrogen status on the contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal hyphae to plant nitrogen uptake. Physiologia Plantarum, 105, 694–700. [[Hawkins_EffectPlantNitrogenStatusContribution_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hawkins%2C%20H.J.%20George%2C%20E.%20Effect%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20status%20on%20the%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20to%20plant%20nitrogen%20uptake%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hawkins%2C%20H.J.%20George%2C%20E.%20Effect%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20status%20on%20the%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20to%20plant%20nitrogen%20uptake%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hawkins%2C%20H.J.%20George%2C%20E.%20Effect%20of%20plant%20nitrogen%20status%20on%20the%20contribution%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20to%20plant%20nitrogen%20uptake%201999)

[^van_der_Heijden_2010_a]: van der Heijden MGA (2010) Mycorrhizal fungi reduce nutrient loss from model grassland ecosystems. Ecology, 91, 1163–1171. [[van_der_Heijden_MycorrhizalFungiReduceNutrientLoss_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20nutrient%20loss%20from%20model%20grassland%20ecosystems%202010)

[^van_der_Heijden_et+al_1998_a]: van der Heijden MGA, Kilronomos JN, Ursic M et al. (1998) Mycorrhizal fungal diversity determines plant biodiversity, ecosystem variability and productivity. Nature (London), 396, 69–72. [[van_der_Heijden_et+al_MycorrhizalFungalDiversityDeterminesPlant_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20JN%2C%20Kilronomos%20M%2C%20Ursic%20Mycorrhizal%20fungal%20diversity%20determines%20plant%20biodiversity%2C%20ecosystem%20variability%20and%20productivity%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20JN%2C%20Kilronomos%20M%2C%20Ursic%20Mycorrhizal%20fungal%20diversity%20determines%20plant%20biodiversity%2C%20ecosystem%20variability%20and%20productivity%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20JN%2C%20Kilronomos%20M%2C%20Ursic%20Mycorrhizal%20fungal%20diversity%20determines%20plant%20biodiversity%2C%20ecosystem%20variability%20and%20productivity%201998)

[^van_der_Heijden_et+al_2008_a]: van der Heijden MGA, Verkade S, de Bruin SJ (2008) Mycorrhizal fungi reduce the negative effects of nitrogen enrichment on plant community structure in dune grassland. Global Change Biology, 14, 2626–2635. [[van_der_Heijden_et+al_MycorrhizalFungiReduceNegativeEffects_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20S%2C%20Verkade%20de%20Bruin%20SJ%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20negative%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20enrichment%20on%20plant%20community%20structure%20in%20dune%20grassland%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20S%2C%20Verkade%20de%20Bruin%20SJ%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20negative%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20enrichment%20on%20plant%20community%20structure%20in%20dune%20grassland%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=van%20der%20Heijden%20MGA%20S%2C%20Verkade%20de%20Bruin%20SJ%20Mycorrhizal%20fungi%20reduce%20the%20negative%20effects%20of%20nitrogen%20enrichment%20on%20plant%20community%20structure%20in%20dune%20grassland%202008)

[^Heinemeyer_2004_a]: Heinemeyer A, Fitter AH (2004) Impact of temperature on the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: growth responses of the host plant and its AM fungal partner. Journal of Experimental Botany, 55, 525–534. [[Heinemeyer_ImpactTemperatureArbuscularMycorrhizalSymbiosis_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Impact%20of%20temperature%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20growth%20responses%20of%20the%20host%20plant%20and%20its%20AM%20fungal%20partner%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Impact%20of%20temperature%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20growth%20responses%20of%20the%20host%20plant%20and%20its%20AM%20fungal%20partner%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Heinemeyer%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Impact%20of%20temperature%20on%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%3A%20growth%20responses%20of%20the%20host%20plant%20and%20its%20AM%20fungal%20partner%202004)

[^Hodge_2010_a]: Hodge A, Fitter AH (2010) Substantial nitrogen acquisition by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic material has implications for N cycling. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 107, 13754–13759. [[Hodge_SubstantialNitrogenAcquisitionArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Substantial%20nitrogen%20acquisition%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20from%20organic%20material%20has%20implications%20for%20N%20cycling%202010)

[^Hodge_et+al_2001_a]: Hodge A, Campbell CD, Fitter AH (2001) An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directly from organic material. Nature (London), 413, 297–299. [[Hodge_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusAcceleratesDecomposition_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hodge%2C%20A.%20Campbell%2C%20C.D.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20An%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20accelerates%20decomposition%20and%20acquires%20nitrogen%20directly%20from%20organic%20material%202001)

[^Jakobsen_1990_a]: Jakobsen I, Rosendahl L (1990) Carbon flow into soil and external hyphae from roots of mycorrhizal cucumber roots. New Phytologist, 115, 77–83. [[Jakobsen_CarbonFlowIntoSoilExternal_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Carbon%20flow%20into%20soil%20and%20external%20hyphae%20from%20roots%20of%20mycorrhizal%20cucumber%20roots%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Carbon%20flow%20into%20soil%20and%20external%20hyphae%20from%20roots%20of%20mycorrhizal%20cucumber%20roots%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Rosendahl%2C%20L.%20Carbon%20flow%20into%20soil%20and%20external%20hyphae%20from%20roots%20of%20mycorrhizal%20cucumber%20roots%201990)

[^Johansen_et+al_1994_a]: Johansen A, Jakobsen I, Jensen ES (1994) Hyphal N transport by a vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus associated with cucumber grown at three nitrogen levels. Plant and Soil, 160, 1–9. [[Johansen_et+al_HyphalNTransportVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizal_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20N%20transport%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20associated%20with%20cucumber%20grown%20at%20three%20nitrogen%20levels%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20N%20transport%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20associated%20with%20cucumber%20grown%20at%20three%20nitrogen%20levels%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Johansen%2C%20A.%20Jakobsen%2C%20I.%20Jensen%2C%20E.S.%20Hyphal%20N%20transport%20by%20a%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20associated%20with%20cucumber%20grown%20at%20three%20nitrogen%20levels%201994)

[^Kubien_et+al_2003_a]: Kubien DS, Caemmerer SV, Furbank RT, Sage RF (2003) C4 photosynthesis at low temperature. A study using transgenic plants with reduced amounts of rubisco. Plant Physiology, 132, 1577–1585. [[Kubien_et+al_C4PhotosynthesisTemperatureAStudy_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kubien%2C%20D.S.%20Caemmerer%2C%20S.V.%20Furbank%2C%20R.T.%20Sage%2C%20R.F.%20C4%20photosynthesis%20at%20low%20temperature.%20A%20study%20using%20transgenic%20plants%20with%20reduced%20amounts%20of%20rubisco%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kubien%2C%20D.S.%20Caemmerer%2C%20S.V.%20Furbank%2C%20R.T.%20Sage%2C%20R.F.%20C4%20photosynthesis%20at%20low%20temperature.%20A%20study%20using%20transgenic%20plants%20with%20reduced%20amounts%20of%20rubisco%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kubien%2C%20D.S.%20Caemmerer%2C%20S.V.%20Furbank%2C%20R.T.%20Sage%2C%20R.F.%20C4%20photosynthesis%20at%20low%20temperature.%20A%20study%20using%20transgenic%20plants%20with%20reduced%20amounts%20of%20rubisco%202003)

[^Lamarque_et+al_2005_a]: Lamarque JF, Kiehl JT, Brasseur GP et al. (2005) Assessing future nitrogen deposition and carbon cycle feedback using a multimodel approach: analysis of nitrogen deposition. Journal of Geophysical Research Atmosphere, 110, D19303. [[Lamarque_et+al_AssessingFutureNitrogenDepositionCarbon_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lamarque%2C%20J.F.%20Kiehl%2C%20J.T.%20Brasseur%2C%20G.P.%20Assessing%20future%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20carbon%20cycle%20feedback%20using%20a%20multimodel%20approach%3A%20analysis%20of%20nitrogen%20deposition%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lamarque%2C%20J.F.%20Kiehl%2C%20J.T.%20Brasseur%2C%20G.P.%20Assessing%20future%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20carbon%20cycle%20feedback%20using%20a%20multimodel%20approach%3A%20analysis%20of%20nitrogen%20deposition%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lamarque%2C%20J.F.%20Kiehl%2C%20J.T.%20Brasseur%2C%20G.P.%20Assessing%20future%20nitrogen%20deposition%20and%20carbon%20cycle%20feedback%20using%20a%20multimodel%20approach%3A%20analysis%20of%20nitrogen%20deposition%202005)

[^Leigh_et+al_2009_a]: Leigh J, Hodge A, Fitter AH (2009) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plant from organic material. New Phytologist, 181, 199–207. [[Leigh_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiTransferSubstantial_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009)

[^Liu_et+al_2000_a]: Liu A, Hamel C, Hamilton R, Smith DL (2000) Mycorrhizae formation and nutrient uptake of new corn (Zea mays L.) hybrids with extreme canopy and leaf architecture as influenced by soil N and P levels. Plant and Soil, 221, 157–166. [[Liu_et+al_MycorrhizaeFormationNutrientUptakeCorn_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liu%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hamilton%2C%20R.%20Smith%2C%20D.L.%20Mycorrhizae%20formation%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20new%20corn%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20hybrids%20with%20extreme%20canopy%20and%20leaf%20architecture%20as%20influenced%20by%20soil%20N%20and%20P%20levels%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liu%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hamilton%2C%20R.%20Smith%2C%20D.L.%20Mycorrhizae%20formation%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20new%20corn%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20hybrids%20with%20extreme%20canopy%20and%20leaf%20architecture%20as%20influenced%20by%20soil%20N%20and%20P%20levels%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liu%2C%20A.%20Hamel%2C%20C.%20Hamilton%2C%20R.%20Smith%2C%20D.L.%20Mycorrhizae%20formation%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20new%20corn%20%28Zea%20mays%20L.%29%20hybrids%20with%20extreme%20canopy%20and%20leaf%20architecture%20as%20influenced%20by%20soil%20N%20and%20P%20levels%202000)

[^Mader_et+al_2000_a]: Mader P, Vierheilig H, Streitwolf-Engel R, Boller T, Frey B, Christie P, Wiemken A (2000) Transport of 15N from a soil compartment separated by a polytetrafluoroethylene membrane to plant roots via the hyphae of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytologist, 146, 155–161. [[Mader_et+al_Transport15nFromSoilCompartment_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mader%2C%20P.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Streitwolf-Engel%2C%20R.%20Boller%2C%20T.%20Transport%20of%2015N%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mader%2C%20P.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Streitwolf-Engel%2C%20R.%20Boller%2C%20T.%20Transport%20of%2015N%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mader%2C%20P.%20Vierheilig%2C%20H.%20Streitwolf-Engel%2C%20R.%20Boller%2C%20T.%20Transport%20of%2015N%20from%20a%20soil%20compartment%20separated%20by%20a%20polytetrafluoroethylene%20membrane%20to%20plant%20roots%20via%20the%20hyphae%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202000)

[^Mclaughlin_et+al_1999_a]: McLaughlin S, Bouton J, Bransby D et al. (1999) Developing switchgrass as a bioenergy crop. In: Perspectives on New Crops and New Uses (ed. Janick J), pp. 282–299. ASHS Press, Alexandria, VA. [[Mclaughlin_et+al_DevelopingSwitchgrassBioenergyCropIn_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McLaughlin%2C%20S.%20Bouton%2C%20J.%20Bransby%2C%20D.%20Developing%20switchgrass%20as%20a%20bioenergy%20crop.%20In%3A%20Perspectives%20on%20New%20Crops%20and%20New%20Uses%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McLaughlin%2C%20S.%20Bouton%2C%20J.%20Bransby%2C%20D.%20Developing%20switchgrass%20as%20a%20bioenergy%20crop.%20In%3A%20Perspectives%20on%20New%20Crops%20and%20New%20Uses%201999) 

[^Olivier_et+al_1998_a]: Olivier JGJ, Bouwman AF, Van der Hoek KW, Berdowski JJM (1998) Global air emission inventories for anthropogenic sources of NOx, NH3 and N2O in 1990. Environmental Pollution, 102, 135–148. [[Olivier_et+al_GlobalEmissionInventoriesAnthropogenicSources_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olivier%20JGJ%20Bouwman%20AF%20Van%20der%20Hoek%20KW%20Berdowski%20JJM%201998%20Global%20air%20emission%20inventories%20for%20anthropogenic%20sources%20of%20NOx%20NH3%20and%20N2O%20in%201990%20Environmental%20Pollution%20102%20135148) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olivier%20JGJ%20Bouwman%20AF%20Van%20der%20Hoek%20KW%20Berdowski%20JJM%201998%20Global%20air%20emission%20inventories%20for%20anthropogenic%20sources%20of%20NOx%20NH3%20and%20N2O%20in%201990%20Environmental%20Pollution%20102%20135148) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olivier%20JGJ%20Bouwman%20AF%20Van%20der%20Hoek%20KW%20Berdowski%20JJM%201998%20Global%20air%20emission%20inventories%20for%20anthropogenic%20sources%20of%20NOx%20NH3%20and%20N2O%20in%201990%20Environmental%20Pollution%20102%20135148)

[^Parrish_2005_a]: Parrish DJ, Fike JH (2005) The biology and agronomy of switchgrass for Biofuels. Critical Reviews in Plant Sciences, 24, 423–459. [[Parrish_BiologyAgronomySwitchgrassBiofuels_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parrish%2C%20D.J.%20Fike%2C%20J.H.%20The%20biology%20and%20agronomy%20of%20switchgrass%20for%20Biofuels%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parrish%2C%20D.J.%20Fike%2C%20J.H.%20The%20biology%20and%20agronomy%20of%20switchgrass%20for%20Biofuels%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parrish%2C%20D.J.%20Fike%2C%20J.H.%20The%20biology%20and%20agronomy%20of%20switchgrass%20for%20Biofuels%202005)

[^Phillips_1970_a]: Phillips JM, Hayman DS (1970) Improved procedure for clearing roots and staining parasitic and vesicular-arbuscular fungi. Transactions of the British Mycological Society, 72, 809–815. [[Phillips_ImprovedProcedureClearingRootsStaining_1970]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20Hayman%2C%20D.S.%20Improved%20procedure%20for%20clearing%20roots%20and%20staining%20parasitic%20and%20vesicular-arbuscular%20fungi%201970) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20Hayman%2C%20D.S.%20Improved%20procedure%20for%20clearing%20roots%20and%20staining%20parasitic%20and%20vesicular-arbuscular%20fungi%201970) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Phillips%2C%20J.M.%20Hayman%2C%20D.S.%20Improved%20procedure%20for%20clearing%20roots%20and%20staining%20parasitic%20and%20vesicular-arbuscular%20fungi%201970)

[^Rains_2007_a]: Rains KC, Bledsoe CS (2007) Rapid uptake of 15N-ammonium and glycine-13C, 15N by arbuscular and ericoid mycorrhizal plants native to a Northern California coastal pygmy forest. Soil Biology and Biochemistry, 39, 1078–1086. [[Rains_RapidUptake15nammoniumGlycine13c15n_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rains%2C%20K.C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.S.%20Rapid%20uptake%20of%2015N-ammonium%20and%20glycine-13C%2C%2015N%20by%20arbuscular%20and%20ericoid%20mycorrhizal%20plants%20native%20to%20a%20Northern%20California%20coastal%20pygmy%20forest%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rains%2C%20K.C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.S.%20Rapid%20uptake%20of%2015N-ammonium%20and%20glycine-13C%2C%2015N%20by%20arbuscular%20and%20ericoid%20mycorrhizal%20plants%20native%20to%20a%20Northern%20California%20coastal%20pygmy%20forest%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rains%2C%20K.C.%20Bledsoe%2C%20C.S.%20Rapid%20uptake%20of%2015N-ammonium%20and%20glycine-13C%2C%2015N%20by%20arbuscular%20and%20ericoid%20mycorrhizal%20plants%20native%20to%20a%20Northern%20California%20coastal%20pygmy%20forest%202007)

[^Rillig_et+al_2002_a]: Rillig MC, Wright SF, Shaw MR, Field CB (2002) Artificial warming positively affects arbuscular mycorrhizae but decreases soil aggregate stability in an annual grassland. Oikos, 97, 52–58. [[Rillig_et+al_ArtificialWarmingPositivelyAffectsArbuscular_2002]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Shaw%2C%20M.R.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Artificial%20warming%20positively%20affects%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20but%20decreases%20soil%20aggregate%20stability%20in%20an%20annual%20grassland%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rillig%2C%20M.C.%20Wright%2C%20S.F.%20Shaw%2C%20M.R.%20Field%2C%20C.B.%20Artificial%20warming%20positively%20affects%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizae%20but%20decreases%20soil%20aggregate%20stability%20in%20an%20annual%20grassland%202002) 

[^Rockstrom_et+al_2009_a]: Rockstrom J, Steffen W, Noone K et al. (2009) A safe operating space for humanity. Nature, 461, 472–475. [[Rockstrom_et+al_SafeOperatingSpaceHumanity_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rockstrom%2C%20J.%20Steffen%2C%20W.%20Noone%2C%20K.%20A%20safe%20operating%20space%20for%20humanity%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rockstrom%2C%20J.%20Steffen%2C%20W.%20Noone%2C%20K.%20A%20safe%20operating%20space%20for%20humanity%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rockstrom%2C%20J.%20Steffen%2C%20W.%20Noone%2C%20K.%20A%20safe%20operating%20space%20for%20humanity%202009)

[^Rooney_et+al_2009_a]: Rooney DC, Killham K, Bending GD, Baggs E, Weih M, Hodge A (2009) Mycorrhizas and biomass crops: opportunities for future sustainable development. Trends in Plant Science, 14, 542–549. [[Rooney_et+al_MycorrhizasBiomassCropsOpportunitiesFuture_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rooney%2C%20D.C.%20Killham%2C%20K.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Baggs%2C%20E.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20biomass%20crops%3A%20opportunities%20for%20future%20sustainable%20development%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rooney%2C%20D.C.%20Killham%2C%20K.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Baggs%2C%20E.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20biomass%20crops%3A%20opportunities%20for%20future%20sustainable%20development%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rooney%2C%20D.C.%20Killham%2C%20K.%20Bending%2C%20G.D.%20Baggs%2C%20E.%20Mycorrhizas%20and%20biomass%20crops%3A%20opportunities%20for%20future%20sustainable%20development%202009)

[^Schroeder_2005_a]: Schroeder MS, Janos DP (2005) Plant growth, phosphorus nutrition, and root morphological responses to arbuscular mycorrhizas, phosphorus fertilization and intraspecific density. Mycorrhiza, 15, 203–216. [[Schroeder_PlantGrowthPhosphorusNutritionRoot_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schroeder%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Plant%20growth%2C%20phosphorus%20nutrition%2C%20and%20root%20morphological%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20and%20intraspecific%20density%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schroeder%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Plant%20growth%2C%20phosphorus%20nutrition%2C%20and%20root%20morphological%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20and%20intraspecific%20density%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schroeder%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Plant%20growth%2C%20phosphorus%20nutrition%2C%20and%20root%20morphological%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%2C%20phosphorus%20fertilization%20and%20intraspecific%20density%202005)

[^Schroeder-Moreno_2008_a]: Schroeder-Moreno MS, Janos DP (2008) Intra- and inter-specific density affects plant growth responses to arbuscular mycorrhizas. Botany, 86, 1180–1193. [[Schroeder-Moreno_IntraInterspecificDensityAffectsPlant_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schroeder-Moreno%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Intra-%20and%20inter-specific%20density%20affects%20plant%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schroeder-Moreno%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Intra-%20and%20inter-specific%20density%20affects%20plant%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schroeder-Moreno%2C%20M.S.%20Janos%2C%20D.P.%20Intra-%20and%20inter-specific%20density%20affects%20plant%20growth%20responses%20to%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202008)

[^Secilia_1987_a]: Secilia J, Bagyaraj DJ (1987) Bacteria and actinomycetes associated with pot cultures of vesicular–arbuscular mycorrhizas. Canadian Journal of Microbiology, 33, 1069– 1073. [[Secilia_BacteriaActinomycetesAssociatedWithCultures_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Secilia%2C%20J.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Bacteria%20and%20actinomycetes%20associated%20with%20pot%20cultures%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Secilia%2C%20J.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Bacteria%20and%20actinomycetes%20associated%20with%20pot%20cultures%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Secilia%2C%20J.%20Bagyaraj%2C%20D.J.%20Bacteria%20and%20actinomycetes%20associated%20with%20pot%20cultures%20of%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%201987)

[^Smith_1997_a]: Smith SE, Read DJ (1997) Mycorrhizal Symbiosis (2nd edn). Academic Press, San Diego, CA. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbiosis_1997]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20Symbiosis%201997) 

[^St_et+al_1983_a]: St John TV, Coleman DC, Reid CPP (1983) Association of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal hyphae with soil organic particles. Ecology, 64, 957–959. [[St_et+al_AssociationVesiculararbuscularMycorrhizalHyphaeWith_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=TV%2C%20St%20John%20DC%2C%20Coleman%20CPP%2C%20Reid%20Association%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20with%20soil%20organic%20particles%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=TV%2C%20St%20John%20DC%2C%20Coleman%20CPP%2C%20Reid%20Association%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20with%20soil%20organic%20particles%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=TV%2C%20St%20John%20DC%2C%20Coleman%20CPP%2C%20Reid%20Association%20of%20vesicular-arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20with%20soil%20organic%20particles%201983)

[^Tanaka_2005_a]: Tanaka Y, Yano K (2005) Nitrogen delivery to maize via mycorrhizal hyphae depends on the form of N supplied. Plant, Cell and Environment, 28, 1247– 1254. [[Tanaka_NitrogenDeliveryMaizeMycorrhizalHyphae_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tanaka%2C%20Y.%20Yano%2C%20K.%20Nitrogen%20delivery%20to%20maize%20via%20mycorrhizal%20hyphae%20depends%20on%20the%20form%20of%20N%20supplied%202005)

[^Thomason_et+al_2004_a]: Thomason WE, Raun WR, Johnson GV, Taliaferro CM, Freeman KW, Wynn KJ, Mullen RW (2004) Switchgrass response to harvest frequency and time and rate of applied nitrogen. Journal of Plant Nutrition, 27, 1199–1226. [[Thomason_et+al_SwitchgrassResponseHarvestFrequencyTime_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thomason%2C%20W.E.%20Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Taliaferro%2C%20C.M.%20Switchgrass%20response%20to%20harvest%20frequency%20and%20time%20and%20rate%20of%20applied%20nitrogen%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thomason%2C%20W.E.%20Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Taliaferro%2C%20C.M.%20Switchgrass%20response%20to%20harvest%20frequency%20and%20time%20and%20rate%20of%20applied%20nitrogen%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thomason%2C%20W.E.%20Raun%2C%20W.R.%20Johnson%2C%20G.V.%20Taliaferro%2C%20C.M.%20Switchgrass%20response%20to%20harvest%20frequency%20and%20time%20and%20rate%20of%20applied%20nitrogen%202004)

[^Tinker_2000_a]: Tinker PB, Nye PH (2000) Solute Movement in the Rhizosphere. Oxford University Press, NY, USA. [[Tinker_SoluteMovementRhizosphere_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tinker%2C%20P.B.%20Nye%2C%20P.H.%20Solute%20Movement%20in%20the%20Rhizosphere%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tinker%2C%20P.B.%20Nye%2C%20P.H.%20Solute%20Movement%20in%20the%20Rhizosphere%202000) 

[^Treseder_2004_a]: Treseder KK (2004) A meta-analysis of mycorrhizal responses to nitrogen, phosphorus, and atmospheric CO2 in field studies. New Phytologist, 164, 347–355. [[Treseder_MetaanalysisMycorrhizalResponsesNitrogenPhosphorus_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20mycorrhizal%20responses%20to%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20atmospheric%20CO2%20in%20field%20studies%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20mycorrhizal%20responses%20to%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20atmospheric%20CO2%20in%20field%20studies%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20mycorrhizal%20responses%20to%20nitrogen%2C%20phosphorus%2C%20and%20atmospheric%20CO2%20in%20field%20studies%202004)

[^Treseder_2006_a]: Treseder KK, Cross A (2006) Global distributions of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Ecosystems, 9, 305–316. [[Treseder_GlobalDistributionsArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Cross%2C%20A.%20Global%20distributions%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Cross%2C%20A.%20Global%20distributions%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Treseder%2C%20K.K.%20Cross%2C%20A.%20Global%20distributions%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202006)

[^Tu_et+al_2006_a]: Tu C, Booker BL, Watson DM, Chen X, Rufty TW, Shi W, HU S (2006) Mycorrhizal mediation of plant N acquisition and residue decomposition: impact of mineral N inputs. Global Change Biology, 12, 793–803. [[Tu_et+al_MycorrhizalMediationPlantNAcquisition_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tu%2C%20C.%20Booker%2C%20B.L.%20Watson%2C%20D.M.%20Chen%2C%20X.%20Mycorrhizal%20mediation%20of%20plant%20N%20acquisition%20and%20residue%20decomposition%3A%20impact%20of%20mineral%20N%20inputs%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tu%2C%20C.%20Booker%2C%20B.L.%20Watson%2C%20D.M.%20Chen%2C%20X.%20Mycorrhizal%20mediation%20of%20plant%20N%20acquisition%20and%20residue%20decomposition%3A%20impact%20of%20mineral%20N%20inputs%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tu%2C%20C.%20Booker%2C%20B.L.%20Watson%2C%20D.M.%20Chen%2C%20X.%20Mycorrhizal%20mediation%20of%20plant%20N%20acquisition%20and%20residue%20decomposition%3A%20impact%20of%20mineral%20N%20inputs%202006)

[^Wedin_1996_a]: Wedin DA, Tilman D (1996) Influence of nitrogen loading and species composition on the carbon balance of grasslands. Science, 274, 1720–1723. [[Wedin_InfluenceNitrogenLoadingSpeciesComposition_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wedin%2C%20D.A.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Influence%20of%20nitrogen%20loading%20and%20species%20composition%20on%20the%20carbon%20balance%20of%20grasslands%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wedin%2C%20D.A.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Influence%20of%20nitrogen%20loading%20and%20species%20composition%20on%20the%20carbon%20balance%20of%20grasslands%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wedin%2C%20D.A.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Influence%20of%20nitrogen%20loading%20and%20species%20composition%20on%20the%20carbon%20balance%20of%20grasslands%201996)

