[[Soto_et+al_RhizobiaPlantpathogenicBacteriaCommonInfection_2006]]

# [Rhizobia and plant-pathogenic bacteria: common infection weapons](https://dx.doi.org/10.1099/mic.0.29112-0)

## [[María J. Soto]]; [[Juan Sanjuán]]; [[José Olivares]]

### 2006

## Abstract
Plant-interacting micro-organisms can establish either mutualistic or pathogenic associations. Although the outcome is completely different, common molecular mechanisms that mediate communication between the interacting partners seem to be involved. Specifically, nitrogen-fixing bacterial symbionts of legume plants, collectively termed rhizobia, and phytopathogenic bacteria have adopted similar strategies and genetic traits to colonize, invade and establish a chronic infection in the plant host. Quorum-sensing signals and ==identical two-component regulatory systems are used by these bacteria to coordinate==, in a cell density-dependent manner or in response to changing environmental conditions, the expression of important factors for host colonization and infection. The success of invasion and survival within the host also requires that rhizobia and pathogens suppress and/or ==overcome plant defence responses triggered after microbial recognition==, a process in which surface polysaccharides, antioxidant systems, ethylene biosynthesis inhibitors and virulence genes are involved.

## Key concepts
#claim/bacteria; #claim/rhizobia; #quorum_sensing; #rhizobium; #extracellular_polysaccharide; #homoserine_lactone; #claim/pathogenic; #type_iii_secretion_system; #reactive_oxygen_species; #symbiosis; #synthesis; #sinorhizobium; #sinorhizobium_meliloti; #type_iv_secretion_system; #mesorhizobium; #effector_protein; #ralstonia_solanacearum; #pseudomonas_syringae; #bacterial_pathogen; #hypersensitive_response; #plant_defense; #bradyrhizobium_japonicum; #xanthomonas_campestris

## Quote
> We describe common strategies and components used by rhizobia and phytopathogenic bacteria to suppress and/or overcome plant defence responses, requisites to establishing a chronic infection within the host


## Key points
- Soil bacteria belonging to various genera of the order Rhizobiales are able to invade legume roots in nitrogen-limiting environments, leading to the formation of a highly specialized organ, the root nodule
- Nod factors together with additional microbial signals such as polysaccharides and secreted proteins allow bacteria attached to root hairs to penetrate the root through a tubular structure called the infection thread, which grows towards the root cortex where the nodule primordium is developing
- We describe common strategies and components used by rhizobia and phytopathogenic bacteria to suppress and/or overcome plant defence responses, requisites to establishing a chronic infection within the host
- Cell–cell communication within a bacterial population and the ability to respond to environmental conditions encountered during the infection process are critical for successful invasion of the plant
- Important is adequate cross-talk between bacteria and plants mediated by chemical signals and secreted proteins to avoid strong plant defence responses
- Knowledge acquired in these fields will allow in the future the design of specific strategies to create plants resistant to plant pathogens and rhizobial strains with improved symbiotic properties

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Soil bacteria belonging to various genera of the order Rhizobiales are able to invade legume roots in nitrogen-limiting environments, leading to the formation of a highly specialized organ, the root nodule.
When the thread reaches the primordium, the bacteria are released into the plant cytoplasm, where they differentiate into their endosymbiotic form, the bacteroids.
These bacteroids are able to reduce nitrogen into ammonia, which is used by the plant.
Pathogenic bacteria establishing compatible interactions with plants obtain nutrients from the host upon colonization.
This process, which often involves the participation of hydrolytic enzymes and toxins (Table 1), provokes plant injury, disease or even death.
In spite of these different outcomes, accumulating evidence suggests that

### Reduction or loss of virulence
Many bacteria are able to regulate gene expression in response to changes in the population density, a process known as quorum sensing (QS).
The most common QS signals are Nacylhomoserine lactones (AHLs), containing a conserved homoserine ring connected to a variable acyl chain (Fig. 2a)
These autoinducers are detected in the cytoplasm by LuxRtype transcriptional activators.
Campestris reported as cis-11-methyl-2-dodecenoic acid (Wang et al, 2004a) (Fig. 2b, Table 2)
In these cases the signals seem to be detected through two-component regulatory systems.
QS enables bacterial cells within a population to coordinate the expression of genes important for the colonization and infection of their plant hosts.
QS regulation avoids early or overexpression of virulence/symbiotic factors which could be detrimental to the bacteria if plant defence responses are alerted before the population reaches a density that ensures productive infection.

### Bacteroid differentiation
[^Gonzalez_2003_b]</a>); [^Marketon_et+al_2003_a]); [^Mathesius_et+al_2003_a]); [^Hoang_et+al_2004_a]); [^Gao_et+al_2005_a]) [^Cubo_et+al_1992_a]); [^Gonzalez_2003_b]</a>) [^Daniels_et+al_2002_a]).
Identical two-component regulatory (2-CR) systems have been identified in plant pathogens and rhizobia that are essential for the successful interaction with their plant hosts (Fig. 1a)
This is the case for the ChvG/ChvI system of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and its orthologue ExoS/ChvI in S. meliloti ([^Cheng_1998_a]</a>).
M. loti virA and virG mutants show symbiotic phenotypes identical to mutants affected in the structural virB genes, i.e. reduced nodule formation efficiencies in a host plant or formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules in a non-host plant
This suggests that VirA/VirG play a role in symbiosis, regulating the expression of a T4SS that influences the outcome of the interaction with the host.
Future investigations should unveil commonalities among the regulons controlled by these 2-CR systems in phytopathogenic and mutualistic bacteria

### Control of plant defence responses
In response to microbial invaders, plants can mount complex defence responses mediated by signalling molecules such as salicylic acid, reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide, jasmonic acid or ethylene ([^Dong_1998_a]).
These molecules have been detected in legumes in response to rhizobial inoculation.
Several pathovars of P. syringae produce the phytotoxin coronatin, which suppresses salicylic-acid-dependent plant defences by inducing the jasmonic acid signalling pathway ([^Abramovitch_2004_a])
Besides these specific strategies, rhizobia and plant pathogens make use of similar components to overcome or actively suppress plant defences such as surface polysaccharides (SPSs), antioxidant systems, ethylene inhibitors and specific virulence factors (Fig. 1b)..
Either strategy leads to increased nodule formation efficiencies

### Virulence genes present in rhizobia
Encoded by the hypersensitive response and pathogenicity gene cluster, these http://mic.sgmjournals.org systems are essential for virulence of phytopathogenic bacteria in susceptible hosts and for the induction of the hypersensitive response (HR) in resistant and non-host plants.
These genes are expressed in response to environmental factors that usually correspond to the conditions encountered during the infection of a host ([^Hueck_1998_a]).
The corresponding proteins show significant similarities to known effectors of the T3 and T4 secretion systems of plant pathogens, suggesting that they function inside plant cells.
Future work should determine whether the virB operons of these species have a role in symbiosis

### Conclusions
Similar efficient strategies have been acquired by pathogenic and mutualistic bacteria to establish compatible associations with their host plants (Fig. 1).
M., Chen, H., Eberhard, A., Gronquist, M.
D., Baudouin, E., Frendo, P., Harrison, J., Santos, R., Jamet, A., van de Sype, G., Touati, D.
Type III protein secretion systems in bacterial pathogens of animals and plants.
TtsI, a key regulator of Rhizobium species NGR234 is required for type III-dependent protein secretion and synthesis of rhamnose-rich polysaccharides.
U., Mulders, S., Gao, M., Teplitski, M., Caetano-Anolles, G., Rolfe, B.
New insights to the function of phytopathogenic bacterial type III effectors in plants.
Quorum sensing regulates exopolysaccharide production, motility, and virulence in Pseudomonas syringae.
Heterologous overexpression of quorum-sensing regulators to study cell-densitydependent phenotypes in a symbiotic plant bacterium Mesorhizobium huakuii.
A LuxR/LuxI-type quorum-sensing system in a plant bacterium, Mesorhizobium tianshanense, controls symbiotic nodulation.

## Contributions
- Similar efficient strategies have been acquired by pathogenic and mutualistic bacteria to establish compatible associations with their host plants (Fig. 1). Cell–cell communication within a bacterial population and the ability to respond to environmental conditions encountered during the infection process are critical for successful invasion of the plant. Equally important is adequate cross-talk between bacteria and plants mediated by chemical signals and secreted proteins to avoid strong plant defence responses. Knowledge acquired in these fields will allow in the future the design of specific strategies to create plants resistant to plant pathogens and rhizobial strains with improved symbiotic properties.<br/><br/>Abramovitch, R. B. & Martin, G. B. (2004). Strategies used by bacterial pathogens to suppress plant defenses. Curr Opin Plant Biol 7, 356–364.

## Future work
- Loh et al (2002a) [^Wang_et+al_2004_b]) [^Zheng_et+al_2006_a]). An area of future research will be directed to understanding how plants respond to AHLs but to bacterial QS signals in general, to identify the different QS-mimics produced by plants in response to particular bacteria and their roles in controlling bacterial behaviours.
- Future work should clarify the specific roles of the various effector proteins in nodulation, the plant cell types where they are injected and the plant programmes interfered with.
- Future work should determine whether the virB operons of these species have a role in symbiosis.


## References
[^Expression_2003_a]: Expression of EPS and T3SS, von Bodman et al. (2003); biofilm development, adhesion, Koutsoudis et al. (2006) [[Expression_ExpressionEpsT3ssBodman_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20T3SS%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003%20biofilm%20development%20adhesion%20Koutsoudis%20et%20al%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20T3SS%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003%20biofilm%20development%20adhesion%20Koutsoudis%20et%20al%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20T3SS%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003%20biofilm%20development%20adhesion%20Koutsoudis%20et%20al%202006)

[^Expression_2003_b]: Expression of extracellular von Bodman et al. (2003) [[Expression_ExpressionExtracellularBodman_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003)

[^Expression_2005_a]: Expression of EPS, motility, ROS Quinones et al. (2005) [[Expression_ExpressionEpsMotility_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20motility%20ROS%20Quinones%20et%20al%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expression%20of%20EPS%20motility%20ROS%20Quinones%20et%20al%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20motility%20ROS%20Quinones%20et%20al%202005)

[^Expression_1999_a]: Expression of extracellular enzymes, Pesci et al. (1999); ROS resistance, plant responses Mathesius et al. (2003); von Bodman et al. (2003) [[Expression_ExpressionExtracellularEnzymesPesci_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20enzymes%20Pesci%20et%20al%201999%20ROS%20resistance%20plant%20responses%20Mathesius%20et%20al%202003%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20enzymes%20Pesci%20et%20al%201999%20ROS%20resistance%20plant%20responses%20Mathesius%20et%20al%202003%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Expression%20of%20extracellular%20enzymes%20Pesci%20et%20al%201999%20ROS%20resistance%20plant%20responses%20Mathesius%20et%20al%202003%20von%20Bodman%20et%20al%202003)

[^Clough_1997_a]: Clough et al. (1997); extracellular enzymes, motility von Bodman et al. (2003) [[Clough_ExtracellularEnzymesMotilityBodman_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Clough%20extracellular%20enzymes%2C%20motility%20von%20Bodman%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Clough%20extracellular%20enzymes%2C%20motility%20von%20Bodman%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Clough%20extracellular%20enzymes%2C%20motility%20von%20Bodman%201997)

[^Expression_2003_c]: Expression of EPS and extracellular Dow et al. (2003); enzymes, biofilm development [[Expression_ExpressionEpsExtracellularDow_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20extracellular%20Dow%20et%20al%202003%20enzymes%20biofilm%20development) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20extracellular%20Dow%20et%20al%202003%20enzymes%20biofilm%20development) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Expression%20of%20EPS%20and%20extracellular%20Dow%20et%20al%202003%20enzymes%20biofilm%20development)

[^Wang_2004_a]: Wang et al. (2004a) [[Wang__2004]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%20et%20al%202004a) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%20et%20al%202004a) 

[^Gonzalez_2003_a]: Gonzalez & Marketon (2003); Marketon et al. (2003); Mathesius et al. (2003); Hoang et al. (2004); Gao et al. (2005) Cubo et al. (1992); Gonzalez & Marketon (2003) Daniels et al. (2002) [[Gonzalez_Mathesius_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gonzalez%20%26%20Marketon%20%282003%29%2C%20Marketon%20Mathesius%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gonzalez%20%26%20Marketon%20%282003%29%2C%20Marketon%20Mathesius%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gonzalez%20%26%20Marketon%20%282003%29%2C%20Marketon%20Mathesius%202003)

[^Loh_2002_a]: Loh et al. (2002a) Wang et al. (2004b) Zheng et al. (2006) [[Loh_Wang_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Loh%20Wang%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Loh%20Wang%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Loh%20Wang%202002)

[^*Only_0000_a]: *Only functions with a direct role in association with the host are described. [[*Only_OnlyFunctionsWithDirectRole_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Only%20functions%20with%20a%20direct%20role%20in%20association%20with%20the%20host%20are%20described) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Only%20functions%20with%20a%20direct%20role%20in%20association%20with%20the%20host%20are%20described) 

[^Antioxidant_2002_a]: Antioxidant systems. Mechanisms to scavenge ROS are common among pathogens and rhizobia, and catalases and superoxide dismutases (SOD) are encoded in the genomes of these plant-interacting microbes (Van Sluys et al., 2002). SOD and catalase, enzymes responsible for the inactivation of O{2 and H2O2, respectively, are virulence factors for some phytopathogenic bacteria (Xu & Pan, 2000; Santos et al., 2001). Similarly, antioxidant defence systems are crucial for the establishment and the maintenance of the symbiosis. S. meliloti mutants defective in ROS-scavenging enzymes show deficiencies in nodulation and nitrogen fixation (reviewed by Herouart et al., 2002). Moreover, the inability to synthesize the tripeptide glutathione (c-glutamyl-L-cysteinylglycine), an important antioxidant, leads to important symbiotic defects in S. meliloti and Rhizobium tropici (Riccillo et al., 2000; Harrison et al., 2005). [[Antioxidant_AntioxidantSystemsMechanismsScavengeRos_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Antioxidant%20systems%20Mechanisms%20to%20scavenge%20ROS%20are%20common%20among%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20and%20catalases%20and%20superoxide%20dismutases%20SOD%20are%20encoded%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20these%20plantinteracting%20microbes%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20SOD%20and%20catalase%20enzymes%20responsible%20for%20the%20inactivation%20of%20O2%20and%20H2O2%20respectively%20are%20virulence%20factors%20for%20some%20phytopathogenic%20bacteria%20Xu%20%20Pan%202000%20Santos%20et%20al%202001%20Similarly%20antioxidant%20defence%20systems%20are%20crucial%20for%20the%20establishment%20and%20the%20maintenance%20of%20the%20symbiosis%20S%20meliloti%20mutants%20defective%20in%20ROSscavenging%20enzymes%20show%20deficiencies%20in%20nodulation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20reviewed%20by%20Herouart%20et%20al%202002%20Moreover%20the%20inability%20to%20synthesize%20the%20tripeptide%20glutathione%20cglutamylLcysteinylglycine%20an%20important%20antioxidant%20leads%20to%20important%20symbiotic%20defects%20in%20S%20meliloti%20and%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20Riccillo%20et%20al%202000%20Harrison%20et%20al%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Antioxidant%20systems%20Mechanisms%20to%20scavenge%20ROS%20are%20common%20among%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20and%20catalases%20and%20superoxide%20dismutases%20SOD%20are%20encoded%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20these%20plantinteracting%20microbes%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20SOD%20and%20catalase%20enzymes%20responsible%20for%20the%20inactivation%20of%20O2%20and%20H2O2%20respectively%20are%20virulence%20factors%20for%20some%20phytopathogenic%20bacteria%20Xu%20%20Pan%202000%20Santos%20et%20al%202001%20Similarly%20antioxidant%20defence%20systems%20are%20crucial%20for%20the%20establishment%20and%20the%20maintenance%20of%20the%20symbiosis%20S%20meliloti%20mutants%20defective%20in%20ROSscavenging%20enzymes%20show%20deficiencies%20in%20nodulation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20reviewed%20by%20Herouart%20et%20al%202002%20Moreover%20the%20inability%20to%20synthesize%20the%20tripeptide%20glutathione%20cglutamylLcysteinylglycine%20an%20important%20antioxidant%20leads%20to%20important%20symbiotic%20defects%20in%20S%20meliloti%20and%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20Riccillo%20et%20al%202000%20Harrison%20et%20al%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Antioxidant%20systems%20Mechanisms%20to%20scavenge%20ROS%20are%20common%20among%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20and%20catalases%20and%20superoxide%20dismutases%20SOD%20are%20encoded%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20these%20plantinteracting%20microbes%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20SOD%20and%20catalase%20enzymes%20responsible%20for%20the%20inactivation%20of%20O2%20and%20H2O2%20respectively%20are%20virulence%20factors%20for%20some%20phytopathogenic%20bacteria%20Xu%20%20Pan%202000%20Santos%20et%20al%202001%20Similarly%20antioxidant%20defence%20systems%20are%20crucial%20for%20the%20establishment%20and%20the%20maintenance%20of%20the%20symbiosis%20S%20meliloti%20mutants%20defective%20in%20ROSscavenging%20enzymes%20show%20deficiencies%20in%20nodulation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixation%20reviewed%20by%20Herouart%20et%20al%202002%20Moreover%20the%20inability%20to%20synthesize%20the%20tripeptide%20glutathione%20cglutamylLcysteinylglycine%20an%20important%20antioxidant%20leads%20to%20important%20symbiotic%20defects%20in%20S%20meliloti%20and%20Rhizobium%20tropici%20Riccillo%20et%20al%202000%20Harrison%20et%20al%202005)

[^Ethylene_1986_a]: Ethylene inhibitors. Strategies to limit the synthesis of ethylene by the plant in response to microbial infection have also been adopted by some plant pathogens and rhizobia. Bradyrhizobium elkanii and the plant pathogen Burkholderia andropogonis produce rhizobitoxine [2amino-4-(2-amino-3-hydropropoxy)-trans-but-3-enoic acid], an inhibitor of ethylene synthesis (Mitchell et al., 1986; Ma et al., 2002), and several rhizobia produce the enzyme 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase, which degrades the immediate precursor of ethylene (Ma et al., 2002). In rhizobia, either strategy leads to increased nodule formation efficiencies. [[Ethylene_EthyleneInhibitorsStrategiesLimitSynthesis_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ethylene%20inhibitors%20Strategies%20to%20limit%20the%20synthesis%20of%20ethylene%20by%20the%20plant%20in%20response%20to%20microbial%20infection%20have%20also%20been%20adopted%20by%20some%20plant%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20Bradyrhizobium%20elkanii%20and%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Burkholderia%20andropogonis%20produce%20rhizobitoxine%202amino42amino3hydropropoxytransbut3enoic%20acid%20an%20inhibitor%20of%20ethylene%20synthesis%20Mitchell%20et%20al%201986%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20and%20several%20rhizobia%20produce%20the%20enzyme%201aminocyclopropane1carboxylate%20ACC%20deaminase%20which%20degrades%20the%20immediate%20precursor%20of%20ethylene%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20In%20rhizobia%20either%20strategy%20leads%20to%20increased%20nodule%20formation%20efficiencies) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ethylene%20inhibitors%20Strategies%20to%20limit%20the%20synthesis%20of%20ethylene%20by%20the%20plant%20in%20response%20to%20microbial%20infection%20have%20also%20been%20adopted%20by%20some%20plant%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20Bradyrhizobium%20elkanii%20and%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Burkholderia%20andropogonis%20produce%20rhizobitoxine%202amino42amino3hydropropoxytransbut3enoic%20acid%20an%20inhibitor%20of%20ethylene%20synthesis%20Mitchell%20et%20al%201986%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20and%20several%20rhizobia%20produce%20the%20enzyme%201aminocyclopropane1carboxylate%20ACC%20deaminase%20which%20degrades%20the%20immediate%20precursor%20of%20ethylene%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20In%20rhizobia%20either%20strategy%20leads%20to%20increased%20nodule%20formation%20efficiencies) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ethylene%20inhibitors%20Strategies%20to%20limit%20the%20synthesis%20of%20ethylene%20by%20the%20plant%20in%20response%20to%20microbial%20infection%20have%20also%20been%20adopted%20by%20some%20plant%20pathogens%20and%20rhizobia%20Bradyrhizobium%20elkanii%20and%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Burkholderia%20andropogonis%20produce%20rhizobitoxine%202amino42amino3hydropropoxytransbut3enoic%20acid%20an%20inhibitor%20of%20ethylene%20synthesis%20Mitchell%20et%20al%201986%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20and%20several%20rhizobia%20produce%20the%20enzyme%201aminocyclopropane1carboxylate%20ACC%20deaminase%20which%20degrades%20the%20immediate%20precursor%20of%20ethylene%20Ma%20et%20al%202002%20In%20rhizobia%20either%20strategy%20leads%20to%20increased%20nodule%20formation%20efficiencies)

[^Analysis_2002_b]: Analysis of available rhizobial genomes reveals the presence of hundreds of genes homologous to the virulence factors of pathogens (Van Sluys et al., 2002). Interestingly, the functional characterization of some of them, such as those encoding type III and type IV secretion systems (T3SS and T4SS, respectively) indicate a likely role in the mutualistic rhizobia–legume interaction. [[Analysis_AnalysisAvailableRhizobialGenomesReveals_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Analysis%20of%20available%20rhizobial%20genomes%20reveals%20the%20presence%20of%20hundreds%20of%20genes%20homologous%20to%20the%20virulence%20factors%20of%20pathogens%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20Interestingly%20the%20functional%20characterization%20of%20some%20of%20them%20such%20as%20those%20encoding%20type%20III%20and%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%20T3SS%20and%20T4SS%20respectively%20indicate%20a%20likely%20role%20in%20the%20mutualistic%20rhizobialegume%20interaction) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Analysis%20of%20available%20rhizobial%20genomes%20reveals%20the%20presence%20of%20hundreds%20of%20genes%20homologous%20to%20the%20virulence%20factors%20of%20pathogens%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20Interestingly%20the%20functional%20characterization%20of%20some%20of%20them%20such%20as%20those%20encoding%20type%20III%20and%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%20T3SS%20and%20T4SS%20respectively%20indicate%20a%20likely%20role%20in%20the%20mutualistic%20rhizobialegume%20interaction) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Analysis%20of%20available%20rhizobial%20genomes%20reveals%20the%20presence%20of%20hundreds%20of%20genes%20homologous%20to%20the%20virulence%20factors%20of%20pathogens%20Van%20Sluys%20et%20al%202002%20Interestingly%20the%20functional%20characterization%20of%20some%20of%20them%20such%20as%20those%20encoding%20type%20III%20and%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%20T3SS%20and%20T4SS%20respectively%20indicate%20a%20likely%20role%20in%20the%20mutualistic%20rhizobialegume%20interaction)

[^Abramovitch_2004_a]: Abramovitch, R. B. & Martin, G. B. (2004). Strategies used by bacterial pathogens to suppress plant defenses. Curr Opin Plant Biol 7, 356–364. [[Abramovitch_StrategiesUsedBacterialPathogensSuppress_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Abramovitch%2C%20R.B.%20Martin%2C%20G.B.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20bacterial%20pathogens%20to%20suppress%20plant%20defenses%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Abramovitch%2C%20R.B.%20Martin%2C%20G.B.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20bacterial%20pathogens%20to%20suppress%20plant%20defenses%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Abramovitch%2C%20R.B.%20Martin%2C%20G.B.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20bacterial%20pathogens%20to%20suppress%20plant%20defenses%202004)

[^Bartsev_et+al_2003_a]: Bartsev, A., Boukli, N. M., Deakin, W. J., Staehelin, C. & Broughton, W. J. (2003). Purification and phosphorylation of the effector protein NopL from Rhizobium sp. NGR234. FEBS Lett 554, 271–274. [[Bartsev_et+al_PurificationPhosphorylationEffectorProteinNopl_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Purification%20and%20phosphorylation%20of%20the%20effector%20protein%20NopL%20from%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Purification%20and%20phosphorylation%20of%20the%20effector%20protein%20NopL%20from%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Purification%20and%20phosphorylation%20of%20the%20effector%20protein%20NopL%20from%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%202003)

[^Bartsev_et+al_2004_a]: Bartsev, A., Deakin, W. J., Boukli, N. M., McAlvin, C. B., Stacey, G., Malnoe, P., Broughton, W. J. & Staehelin, C. (2004a). NopL, an effector protein of Rhizobium sp. NGR234, thwarts activation of plant defense reactions. Plant Physiol 134, 871–879. [[Bartsev_et+al_NoplEffectorProteinRhizobium_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20McAlvin%2C%20C.B.%20NopL%2C%20an%20effector%20protein%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%2C%20thwarts%20activation%20of%20plant%20defense%20reactions%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20McAlvin%2C%20C.B.%20NopL%2C%20an%20effector%20protein%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%2C%20thwarts%20activation%20of%20plant%20defense%20reactions%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20McAlvin%2C%20C.B.%20NopL%2C%20an%20effector%20protein%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20NGR234%2C%20thwarts%20activation%20of%20plant%20defense%20reactions%202004)

[^Bartsev_et+al_2004_b]: Bartsev, A., Kobayashi, H. & Broughton, W. J. (2004b). Rhizobial signals convert pathogens to symbionts at the legume interface. In Plant Microbiology, pp. 19–31. Edited by M. Gillings & A. Holmes. Abingdon: Garland Science/BIOS Scientific Publishers. [[Bartsev_et+al_RhizobialSignalsConvertPathogensSymbionts_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobial%20signals%20convert%20pathogens%20to%20symbionts%20at%20the%20legume%20interface%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobial%20signals%20convert%20pathogens%20to%20symbionts%20at%20the%20legume%20interface%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bartsev%2C%20A.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobial%20signals%20convert%20pathogens%20to%20symbionts%20at%20the%20legume%20interface%202004)

[^Bell_et+al_2004_a]: Bell, K. S., Sebaihia, M., Pritchard, L. & 13 other authors (2004). Genome sequence of the enterobacterial phytopathogen Erwinia carotovora subsp. atroseptica and characterization of virulence factors. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 101, 11105–11110. [[Bell_et+al_GenomeSequenceEnterobacterialPhytopathogenErwinia_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bell%2C%20K.S.%20Sebaihia%2C%20M.%20Pritchard%2C%20L.%20Genome%20sequence%20of%20the%20enterobacterial%20phytopathogen%20Erwinia%20carotovora%20subsp.%20atroseptica%20and%20characterization%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bell%2C%20K.S.%20Sebaihia%2C%20M.%20Pritchard%2C%20L.%20Genome%20sequence%20of%20the%20enterobacterial%20phytopathogen%20Erwinia%20carotovora%20subsp.%20atroseptica%20and%20characterization%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bell%2C%20K.S.%20Sebaihia%2C%20M.%20Pritchard%2C%20L.%20Genome%20sequence%20of%20the%20enterobacterial%20phytopathogen%20Erwinia%20carotovora%20subsp.%20atroseptica%20and%20characterization%202004)

[^Bueno_et+al_2001_a]: Bueno, P., Soto, M. J., Rodrıguez-Rosales, M. P., Sanjuan, J., Olivares, J. & Donaire, J. P. (2001). Time course of lipoxygenase, antioxidant enzyme acitivities and H2O2 accumulation during the early stages of Rhizobium-legume symbiosis. New Phytol 152, 91–96. [[Bueno_et+al_TimeCourseLipoxygenaseAntioxidantEnzyme_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bueno%2C%20P.%20Soto%2C%20M.J.%20Rodr%C4%B1guez-Rosales%2C%20M.P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Time%20course%20of%20lipoxygenase%2C%20antioxidant%20enzyme%20acitivities%20and%20H2O2%20accumulation%20during%20the%20early%20stages%20of%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bueno%2C%20P.%20Soto%2C%20M.J.%20Rodr%C4%B1guez-Rosales%2C%20M.P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Time%20course%20of%20lipoxygenase%2C%20antioxidant%20enzyme%20acitivities%20and%20H2O2%20accumulation%20during%20the%20early%20stages%20of%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bueno%2C%20P.%20Soto%2C%20M.J.%20Rodr%C4%B1guez-Rosales%2C%20M.P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Time%20course%20of%20lipoxygenase%2C%20antioxidant%20enzyme%20acitivities%20and%20H2O2%20accumulation%20during%20the%20early%20stages%20of%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202001)

[^Cascales_2003_a]: Cascales, E. & Christie, P. J. (2003). The versatile bacterial type IV secretion systems. Nat Rev Microbiol 1, 137–149. [[Cascales_VersatileBacterialTypeIvSecretion_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cascales%2C%20E.%20Christie%2C%20P.J.%20The%20versatile%20bacterial%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cascales%2C%20E.%20Christie%2C%20P.J.%20The%20versatile%20bacterial%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cascales%2C%20E.%20Christie%2C%20P.J.%20The%20versatile%20bacterial%20type%20IV%20secretion%20systems%202003)

[^Chen_et+al_2002_a]: Chen, L., Chen, Y., Wood, D. W. & Nester, E. W. (2002). A new type IV secretion system promotes conjugal transfer in Agrobacterium tumefaciens. J Bacteriol 184, 4838–4845. [[Chen_et+al_TypeIvSecretionSystemPromotes_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Chen%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20Y.%20Wood%2C%20D.W.%20Nester%2C%20E.W.%20A%20new%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20promotes%20conjugal%20transfer%20in%20Agrobacterium%20tumefaciens%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Chen%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20Y.%20Wood%2C%20D.W.%20Nester%2C%20E.W.%20A%20new%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20promotes%20conjugal%20transfer%20in%20Agrobacterium%20tumefaciens%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Chen%2C%20L.%20Chen%2C%20Y.%20Wood%2C%20D.W.%20Nester%2C%20E.W.%20A%20new%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20promotes%20conjugal%20transfer%20in%20Agrobacterium%20tumefaciens%202002)

[^Cheng_1998_a]: Cheng, H. & Walker, G. C. (1998). Succinoglycan production by Rhizobium meliloti is regulated through the ExoS/ChvI twocomponent regulatory system. J Bacteriol 180, 20–26. [[Cheng_SuccinoglycanProductionRhizobiumMelilotiRegulated_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cheng%2C%20H.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Succinoglycan%20production%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20regulated%20through%20the%20ExoS/ChvI%20twocomponent%20regulatory%20system%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cheng%2C%20H.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Succinoglycan%20production%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20regulated%20through%20the%20ExoS/ChvI%20twocomponent%20regulatory%20system%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cheng%2C%20H.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Succinoglycan%20production%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20regulated%20through%20the%20ExoS/ChvI%20twocomponent%20regulatory%20system%201998)

[^Clough_et+al_1997_b]: Clough, S. J., Flavier, A. B., Schell, M. A. & Denny, T. P. (1997). Differential expression of virulence genes and motility in Ralstonia (Pseudomonas) solanacearum during exponential growth. Appl Environ Microbiol 63, 844–850. [[Clough_et+al_DifferentialExpressionVirulenceGenesMotility_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Differential%20expression%20of%20virulence%20genes%20and%20motility%20in%20Ralstonia%20%28Pseudomonas%29%20solanacearum%20during%20exponential%20growth%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Differential%20expression%20of%20virulence%20genes%20and%20motility%20in%20Ralstonia%20%28Pseudomonas%29%20solanacearum%20during%20exponential%20growth%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Differential%20expression%20of%20virulence%20genes%20and%20motility%20in%20Ralstonia%20%28Pseudomonas%29%20solanacearum%20during%20exponential%20growth%201997)

[^Cubo_et+al_1992_a]: Cubo, M. T., Economou, A., Murphy, G., Johnston, A. W. & Downie, J. A. (1992). Molecular characterization and regulation of the rhizosphereexpressed genes rhiABCR that can influence nodulation by Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae. J Bacteriol 174, 4026–4035. [[Cubo_et+al_MolecularCharacterizationRegulationRhizosphereexpressedGenes_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cubo%2C%20M.T.%20Economou%2C%20A.%20Murphy%2C%20G.%20Johnston%2C%20A.W.%20Molecular%20characterization%20and%20regulation%20of%20the%20rhizosphereexpressed%20genes%20rhiABCR%20that%20can%20influence%20nodulation%20by%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20biovar%20viciae%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cubo%2C%20M.T.%20Economou%2C%20A.%20Murphy%2C%20G.%20Johnston%2C%20A.W.%20Molecular%20characterization%20and%20regulation%20of%20the%20rhizosphereexpressed%20genes%20rhiABCR%20that%20can%20influence%20nodulation%20by%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20biovar%20viciae%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cubo%2C%20M.T.%20Economou%2C%20A.%20Murphy%2C%20G.%20Johnston%2C%20A.W.%20Molecular%20characterization%20and%20regulation%20of%20the%20rhizosphereexpressed%20genes%20rhiABCR%20that%20can%20influence%20nodulation%20by%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20biovar%20viciae%201992)

[^Daniels_et+al_2002_a]: Daniels, R., de Vos, D. E., Desair, J. & 7 other authors (2002). The cin quorum sensing locus of Rhizobium etli CNPAF512 affects growth and symbiotic nitrogen fixation. J Biol Chem 277, 462–468. [[Daniels_et+al_OtherAuthors_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Daniels%2C%20R.%20de%20Vos%2C%20D.E.%20Desair%2C%20J.%20other%20authors%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Daniels%2C%20R.%20de%20Vos%2C%20D.E.%20Desair%2C%20J.%20other%20authors%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Daniels%2C%20R.%20de%20Vos%2C%20D.E.%20Desair%2C%20J.%20other%20authors%202002)

[^D_et+al_2004_a]: D’Haeze, W., Glushka, J., De Rycke, R., Holsters, M. & Carlson, R. W. (2004). Structural characterization of extracellular polysaccharides of Azorhizobium caulinodans and importance for nodule initiation on Sesbania rostrata. Mol Microbiol 52, 485–500. [[D_et+al_StructuralCharacterizationExtracellularPolysaccharidesAzorhizobium_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=D%E2%80%99Haeze%2C%20W.%20Glushka%2C%20J.%20De%20Rycke%2C%20R.%20Holsters%2C%20M.%20Structural%20characterization%20of%20extracellular%20polysaccharides%20of%20Azorhizobium%20caulinodans%20and%20importance%20for%20nodule%20initiation%20on%20Sesbania%20rostrata%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D%E2%80%99Haeze%2C%20W.%20Glushka%2C%20J.%20De%20Rycke%2C%20R.%20Holsters%2C%20M.%20Structural%20characterization%20of%20extracellular%20polysaccharides%20of%20Azorhizobium%20caulinodans%20and%20importance%20for%20nodule%20initiation%20on%20Sesbania%20rostrata%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=D%E2%80%99Haeze%2C%20W.%20Glushka%2C%20J.%20De%20Rycke%2C%20R.%20Holsters%2C%20M.%20Structural%20characterization%20of%20extracellular%20polysaccharides%20of%20Azorhizobium%20caulinodans%20and%20importance%20for%20nodule%20initiation%20on%20Sesbania%20rostrata%202004)

[^Dong_1998_a]: Dong, X. (1998). SA, JA, ethylene, and disease resistance in plants. Curr Opin Plant Biol 1, 316–323. [[Dong_DiseaseResistancePlants_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dong%2C%20X.%20and%20disease%20resistance%20in%20plants%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dong%2C%20X.%20and%20disease%20resistance%20in%20plants%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dong%2C%20X.%20and%20disease%20resistance%20in%20plants%201998)

[^Dow_et+al_2003_a]: Dow, J. M., Crossman, L., Findlay, K., He, Y. Q., Feng, J. X. & Tang, J. L. (2003). Biofilm dispersal in Xanthomonas campestris is controlled by cell-cell signaling and is required for full virulence to plants. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 100, 10995–11000. [[Dow_et+al_BiofilmDispersalXanthomonasCampestrisControlled_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Dow%2C%20J.M.%20Crossman%2C%20L.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20He%2C%20Y.Q.%20Biofilm%20dispersal%20in%20Xanthomonas%20campestris%20is%20controlled%20by%20cell-cell%20signaling%20and%20is%20required%20for%20full%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dow%2C%20J.M.%20Crossman%2C%20L.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20He%2C%20Y.Q.%20Biofilm%20dispersal%20in%20Xanthomonas%20campestris%20is%20controlled%20by%20cell-cell%20signaling%20and%20is%20required%20for%20full%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Dow%2C%20J.M.%20Crossman%2C%20L.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20He%2C%20Y.Q.%20Biofilm%20dispersal%20in%20Xanthomonas%20campestris%20is%20controlled%20by%20cell-cell%20signaling%20and%20is%20required%20for%20full%202003)

[^Engledow_et+al_2004_a]: Engledow, A. S., Meldrano, E. G., Mahenthiralingam, E., LiPuma, J. J. & Gonzalez, C. F. (2004). Involvement of a plasmid-encoded type IV secretion system in the plant tissue watersoaking phenotype of Burkholderia cenocepacia. J Bacteriol 186, 6015–6024. [[Engledow_et+al_InvolvementPlasmidencodedTypeIvSecretion_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Engledow%2C%20A.S.%20Meldrano%2C%20E.G.%20Mahenthiralingam%2C%20E.%20LiPuma%2C%20J.J.%20Involvement%20of%20a%20plasmid-encoded%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20in%20the%20plant%20tissue%20watersoaking%20phenotype%20of%20Burkholderia%20cenocepacia%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Engledow%2C%20A.S.%20Meldrano%2C%20E.G.%20Mahenthiralingam%2C%20E.%20LiPuma%2C%20J.J.%20Involvement%20of%20a%20plasmid-encoded%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20in%20the%20plant%20tissue%20watersoaking%20phenotype%20of%20Burkholderia%20cenocepacia%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Engledow%2C%20A.S.%20Meldrano%2C%20E.G.%20Mahenthiralingam%2C%20E.%20LiPuma%2C%20J.J.%20Involvement%20of%20a%20plasmid-encoded%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%20in%20the%20plant%20tissue%20watersoaking%20phenotype%20of%20Burkholderia%20cenocepacia%202004)

[^Ferguson_2003_a]: Ferguson, B. J. & Mathesius, U. (2003). Signaling interactions during nodule development. J Plant Growth Regul 22, 47–72. [[Ferguson_SignalingInteractionsDuringNoduleDevelopment_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ferguson%2C%20B.J.%20Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Signaling%20interactions%20during%20nodule%20development%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ferguson%2C%20B.J.%20Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Signaling%20interactions%20during%20nodule%20development%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ferguson%2C%20B.J.%20Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Signaling%20interactions%20during%20nodule%20development%202003)

[^Flavier_et+al_1997_a]: Flavier, A. B., Clough, S. J., Schell, M. A. & Denny, T. P. (1997). Identification of 3-hydroxypalmitic acid methyl ester as a novel autoregulator controlling virulence in Ralstonia solanacearum. Mol Microbiol 26, 251–259. [[Flavier_et+al_Identification3hydroxypalmiticAcidMethylEster_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Identification%20of%203-hydroxypalmitic%20acid%20methyl%20ester%20as%20a%20novel%20autoregulator%20controlling%20virulence%20in%20Ralstonia%20solanacearum%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Identification%20of%203-hydroxypalmitic%20acid%20methyl%20ester%20as%20a%20novel%20autoregulator%20controlling%20virulence%20in%20Ralstonia%20solanacearum%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Flavier%2C%20A.B.%20Clough%2C%20S.J.%20Schell%2C%20M.A.%20Denny%2C%20T.P.%20Identification%20of%203-hydroxypalmitic%20acid%20methyl%20ester%20as%20a%20novel%20autoregulator%20controlling%20virulence%20in%20Ralstonia%20solanacearum%201997)

[^Fraysse_et+al_2003_a]: Fraysse, N., Courdec, F. & Poinsot, V. (2003). Surface polysaccharide involvement in establishing the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis. Eur J Biochem 270, 1365–1380. [[Fraysse_et+al_SurfacePolysaccharideInvolvementEstablishingRhizobiumlegume_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fraysse%2C%20N.%20Courdec%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Surface%20polysaccharide%20involvement%20in%20establishing%20the%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fraysse%2C%20N.%20Courdec%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Surface%20polysaccharide%20involvement%20in%20establishing%20the%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fraysse%2C%20N.%20Courdec%2C%20F.%20Poinsot%2C%20V.%20Surface%20polysaccharide%20involvement%20in%20establishing%20the%20Rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%202003)

[^Gao_et+al_2005_a]: Gao, M., Chen, H., Eberhard, A., Gronquist, M. R., Robinson, J. B., Rolfe, B. G. & Bauer, W. D. (2005). sinI- and expR-dependent quorum sensing in Sinorhizobium meliloti. J Bacteriol 187, 7931–7944. [[Gao_et+al_SiniExprdependentQuorumSensingSinorhizobium_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gao%2C%20M.%20Chen%2C%20H.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gronquist%2C%20M.R.%20sinI-%20and%20expR-dependent%20quorum%20sensing%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gao%2C%20M.%20Chen%2C%20H.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gronquist%2C%20M.R.%20sinI-%20and%20expR-dependent%20quorum%20sensing%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gao%2C%20M.%20Chen%2C%20H.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gronquist%2C%20M.R.%20sinI-%20and%20expR-dependent%20quorum%20sensing%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005)

[^Gonzalez_2003_b]: Gonzalez, J. E. & Marketon, M. M. (2003). Quorum sensing in nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 67, 574–592. [[Gonzalez_QuorumSensingNitrogenfixingBacteria_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteria%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteria%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteria%202003)

[^Harrison_et+al_2005_a]: Harrison, J., Jamet, A., Muglia, C. I., Van de Sype, G. Aguilar O. M., Puppo, A. & Frendo, P. (2005). Glutathione plays a fundamental role in growth and symbiotic capacity of Sinorhizobium meliloti. J Bacteriol 187, 168–174. [[Harrison_et+al_GlutathionePlaysFundamentalRoleGrowth_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harrison%2C%20J.%20Jamet%2C%20A.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20Van%20de%20Sype%2C%20G.Aguilar%20O.M.%20Glutathione%20plays%20a%20fundamental%20role%20in%20growth%20and%20symbiotic%20capacity%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harrison%2C%20J.%20Jamet%2C%20A.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20Van%20de%20Sype%2C%20G.Aguilar%20O.M.%20Glutathione%20plays%20a%20fundamental%20role%20in%20growth%20and%20symbiotic%20capacity%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harrison%2C%20J.%20Jamet%2C%20A.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20Van%20de%20Sype%2C%20G.Aguilar%20O.M.%20Glutathione%20plays%20a%20fundamental%20role%20in%20growth%20and%20symbiotic%20capacity%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202005)

[^Herouart_et+al_2002_a]: Herouart, D., Baudouin, E., Frendo, P., Harrison, J., Santos, R., Jamet, A., van de Sype, G., Touati, D. & Puppo, A. (2002). Reactive oxygen species, nitric oxide and glutathione: a key role in the establishment of the legume-Rhizobium symbiosis? Plant Physiol Biochem 40, 619–624. [[Herouart_et+al_ReactiveOxygenSpeciesNitricOxide_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Herouart%2C%20D.%20Baudouin%2C%20E.%20Frendo%2C%20P.%20Harrison%2C%20J.%20Reactive%20oxygen%20species%2C%20nitric%20oxide%20and%20glutathione%3A%20a%20key%20role%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%3F%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Herouart%2C%20D.%20Baudouin%2C%20E.%20Frendo%2C%20P.%20Harrison%2C%20J.%20Reactive%20oxygen%20species%2C%20nitric%20oxide%20and%20glutathione%3A%20a%20key%20role%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%3F%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Herouart%2C%20D.%20Baudouin%2C%20E.%20Frendo%2C%20P.%20Harrison%2C%20J.%20Reactive%20oxygen%20species%2C%20nitric%20oxide%20and%20glutathione%3A%20a%20key%20role%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%3F%202002)

[^Hoang_et+al_2004_a]: Hoang, H. H., Becker, A. & Gonzalez, J. E. (2004). The LuxR homolog ExpR, in combination with the Sin quorum sensing system, plays a central role in Sinorhizobium meliloti gene expression. J Bacteriol 186, 5460–5472. [[Hoang_et+al_LuxrHomologExprCombinationWith_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hoang%2C%20H.H.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20The%20LuxR%20homolog%20ExpR%2C%20in%20combination%20with%20the%20Sin%20quorum%20sensing%20system%2C%20plays%20a%20central%20role%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20gene%20expression%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hoang%2C%20H.H.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20The%20LuxR%20homolog%20ExpR%2C%20in%20combination%20with%20the%20Sin%20quorum%20sensing%20system%2C%20plays%20a%20central%20role%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20gene%20expression%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hoang%2C%20H.H.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20The%20LuxR%20homolog%20ExpR%2C%20in%20combination%20with%20the%20Sin%20quorum%20sensing%20system%2C%20plays%20a%20central%20role%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20gene%20expression%202004)

[^Hubber_et+al_2004_a]: Hubber, A., Vergunst, A. C., Sullivan, J. T., Hooykaas, P. J. J. & Ronson, C. W. (2004). Symbiotic phenotypes and translocated effector proteins of the Mesorhizobium loti strain R7A VirB/D4 type IV secretion system. Mol Microbiol 54, 561–574. [[Hubber_et+al_SymbioticPhenotypesTranslocatedEffectorProteins_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hubber%2C%20A.%20Vergunst%2C%20A.C.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.T.%20Hooykaas%2C%20P.J.J.%20Symbiotic%20phenotypes%20and%20translocated%20effector%20proteins%20of%20the%20Mesorhizobium%20loti%20strain%20R7A%20VirB/D4%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hubber%2C%20A.%20Vergunst%2C%20A.C.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.T.%20Hooykaas%2C%20P.J.J.%20Symbiotic%20phenotypes%20and%20translocated%20effector%20proteins%20of%20the%20Mesorhizobium%20loti%20strain%20R7A%20VirB/D4%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hubber%2C%20A.%20Vergunst%2C%20A.C.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.T.%20Hooykaas%2C%20P.J.J.%20Symbiotic%20phenotypes%20and%20translocated%20effector%20proteins%20of%20the%20Mesorhizobium%20loti%20strain%20R7A%20VirB/D4%20type%20IV%20secretion%20system%202004)

[^Hueck_1998_a]: Hueck, C. J. (1998). Type III protein secretion systems in bacterial pathogens of animals and plants. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 62, 379–433. [[Hueck_TypeIiiProteinSecretionSystems_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hueck%2C%20C.J.%20Type%20III%20protein%20secretion%20systems%20in%20bacterial%20pathogens%20of%20animals%20and%20plants%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hueck%2C%20C.J.%20Type%20III%20protein%20secretion%20systems%20in%20bacterial%20pathogens%20of%20animals%20and%20plants%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hueck%2C%20C.J.%20Type%20III%20protein%20secretion%20systems%20in%20bacterial%20pathogens%20of%20animals%20and%20plants%201998)

[^Keith_1999_a]: Keith, L. M. W. & Bender, C. L. (1999). AlgT (s22) controls alginate production and tolerance to environmental stress in Pseudomonas syringae. J Bacteriol 181, 7176–7184. [[Keith_Algts22ControlsAlginateProduction_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Keith%2C%20L.M.W.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20AlgT%20%28s22%29%20controls%20alginate%20production%20and%20tolerance%20to%20environmental%20stress%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Keith%2C%20L.M.W.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20AlgT%20%28s22%29%20controls%20alginate%20production%20and%20tolerance%20to%20environmental%20stress%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Keith%2C%20L.M.W.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20AlgT%20%28s22%29%20controls%20alginate%20production%20and%20tolerance%20to%20environmental%20stress%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%201999)

[^Koutsoudis_et+al_2006_a]: Koutsoudis, M. D., Tsaltas, D., Minogue, T. D. & von Bodman, S. B. (2006). Quorum-sensing regulation governs bacterial adhesion, biofilm development, and host colonization in Pantoea stewartii subspecies stewartii. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 103, 5983–5988. [[Koutsoudis_et+al_QuorumsensingRegulationGovernsBacterialAdhesion_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koutsoudis%2C%20M.D.%20Tsaltas%2C%20D.%20Minogue%2C%20T.D.%20von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Quorum-sensing%20regulation%20governs%20bacterial%20adhesion%2C%20biofilm%20development%2C%20and%20host%20colonization%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koutsoudis%2C%20M.D.%20Tsaltas%2C%20D.%20Minogue%2C%20T.D.%20von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Quorum-sensing%20regulation%20governs%20bacterial%20adhesion%2C%20biofilm%20development%2C%20and%20host%20colonization%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koutsoudis%2C%20M.D.%20Tsaltas%2C%20D.%20Minogue%2C%20T.D.%20von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Quorum-sensing%20regulation%20governs%20bacterial%20adhesion%2C%20biofilm%20development%2C%20and%20host%20colonization%202006)

[^Li_et+al_2002_a]: Li, L., Jia, Y., Hou, Q., Charles, T. C., Nester, E. W. & Pan, S. Q. (2002). A global pH sensor: Agrobacterium sensor protein ChvG regulates acid-inducible genes on its two chromosomes and Ti plasmid. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99, 12369–12374. [[Li_et+al_GlobalPhSensorAgrobacteriumSensor_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20L.%20Jia%2C%20Y.%20Hou%2C%20Q.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20A%20global%20pH%20sensor%3A%20Agrobacterium%20sensor%20protein%20ChvG%20regulates%20acid-inducible%20genes%20on%20its%20two%20chromosomes%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20L.%20Jia%2C%20Y.%20Hou%2C%20Q.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20A%20global%20pH%20sensor%3A%20Agrobacterium%20sensor%20protein%20ChvG%20regulates%20acid-inducible%20genes%20on%20its%20two%20chromosomes%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20L.%20Jia%2C%20Y.%20Hou%2C%20Q.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20A%20global%20pH%20sensor%3A%20Agrobacterium%20sensor%20protein%20ChvG%20regulates%20acid-inducible%20genes%20on%20its%20two%20chromosomes%202002)

[^Loh_et+al_2002_b]: Loh, J., Carlson, R. W., York, W. S. & Stacey, G. (2002a). Bradyoxetin, a unique chemical signal involved in symbiotic gene regulation. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99, 14446–14451. [[Loh_et+al_BradyoxetinUniqueChemicalSignalInvolved_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Loh%2C%20J.%20Carlson%2C%20R.W.%20York%2C%20W.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Bradyoxetin%2C%20a%20unique%20chemical%20signal%20involved%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Loh%2C%20J.%20Carlson%2C%20R.W.%20York%2C%20W.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Bradyoxetin%2C%20a%20unique%20chemical%20signal%20involved%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Loh%2C%20J.%20Carlson%2C%20R.W.%20York%2C%20W.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Bradyoxetin%2C%20a%20unique%20chemical%20signal%20involved%202002)

[^Loh_et+al_2002_c]: Loh, J., Pierson, E. A., Pierson, L. S., III, Stacey, G. & Chatterjee, A. (2002b). Quorum sensing in plant-associated bacteria. Curr Opin Plant Biol 5, 1–6. [[Loh_et+al_QuorumSensingPlantassociatedBacteria_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Loh%2C%20J.%20Pierson%2C%20E.A.%20Pierson%2C%20III%2C%20L.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Loh%2C%20J.%20Pierson%2C%20E.A.%20Pierson%2C%20III%2C%20L.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Loh%2C%20J.%20Pierson%2C%20E.A.%20Pierson%2C%20III%2C%20L.S.%20Stacey%2C%20G.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002)

[^Ma_et+al_2002_a]: Ma, W., Penrose, D. M. & Glick, B. R. (2002). Strategies used by rhizobia to lower plant ethylene levels and increase nodulation. Can J Microbiol 48, 947–954. [[Ma_et+al_StrategiesUsedRhizobiaLowerPlant_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ma%2C%20W.%20Penrose%2C%20D.M.%20Glick%2C%20B.R.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20rhizobia%20to%20lower%20plant%20ethylene%20levels%20and%20increase%20nodulation%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ma%2C%20W.%20Penrose%2C%20D.M.%20Glick%2C%20B.R.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20rhizobia%20to%20lower%20plant%20ethylene%20levels%20and%20increase%20nodulation%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ma%2C%20W.%20Penrose%2C%20D.M.%20Glick%2C%20B.R.%20Strategies%20used%20by%20rhizobia%20to%20lower%20plant%20ethylene%20levels%20and%20increase%20nodulation%202002)

[^Marie_et+al_2001_a]: Marie, C., Broughton, W. J. & Deakin, W. J. (2001). Rhizobium type III secretion systems: legume charmers or alarmers? Curr Opin Plant Biol 4, 336–342. [[Marie_et+al_RhizobiumTypeIiiSecretionSystems_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobium%20type%20III%20secretion%20systems%3A%20legume%20charmers%20or%20alarmers%3F%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marie%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobium%20type%20III%20secretion%20systems%3A%20legume%20charmers%20or%20alarmers%3F%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Rhizobium%20type%20III%20secretion%20systems%3A%20legume%20charmers%20or%20alarmers%3F%202001)

[^Marie_et+al_2003_a]: Marie, C., Deakin, W. J., Viprey, V., Kopcinska, J., Golinowski, W., Krishnan, H. B., Perret, X. & Broughton, W. J. (2003). Characterization of Nops, nodulation outer proteins, secreted via the type III secretion system of NGR234. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 16, 743–751. [[Marie_et+al_CharacterizationNopsNodulationOuterProteins_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Viprey%2C%20V.%20Kopcinska%2C%20J.%20Characterization%20of%20Nops%2C%20nodulation%20outer%20proteins%2C%20secreted%20via%20the%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20NGR234%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Viprey%2C%20V.%20Kopcinska%2C%20J.%20Characterization%20of%20Nops%2C%20nodulation%20outer%20proteins%2C%20secreted%20via%20the%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20NGR234%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Viprey%2C%20V.%20Kopcinska%2C%20J.%20Characterization%20of%20Nops%2C%20nodulation%20outer%20proteins%2C%20secreted%20via%20the%20type%20III%20secretion%20system%20of%20NGR234%202003)

[^Marie_et+al_2004_a]: Marie, C., Deakin, W. J., Ojanen-Reuhs, T., Diallo, E., Reuhs, B., Broughton, W. J. & Perret, X. (2004). TtsI, a key regulator of Rhizobium species NGR234 is required for type III-dependent protein secretion and synthesis of rhamnose-rich polysaccharides. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 17, 958–966. [[Marie_et+al_TtsiRegulatorRhizobiumSpeciesNgr234_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Ojanen-Reuhs%2C%20T.%20Diallo%2C%20E.%20TtsI%2C%20a%20key%20regulator%20of%20Rhizobium%20species%20NGR234%20is%20required%20for%20type%20III-dependent%20protein%20secretion%20and%20synthesis%20of%20rhamnose-rich%20polysaccharides%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Ojanen-Reuhs%2C%20T.%20Diallo%2C%20E.%20TtsI%2C%20a%20key%20regulator%20of%20Rhizobium%20species%20NGR234%20is%20required%20for%20type%20III-dependent%20protein%20secretion%20and%20synthesis%20of%20rhamnose-rich%20polysaccharides%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marie%2C%20C.%20Deakin%2C%20W.J.%20Ojanen-Reuhs%2C%20T.%20Diallo%2C%20E.%20TtsI%2C%20a%20key%20regulator%20of%20Rhizobium%20species%20NGR234%20is%20required%20for%20type%20III-dependent%20protein%20secretion%20and%20synthesis%20of%20rhamnose-rich%20polysaccharides%202004)

[^Marketon_et+al_2003_a]: Marketon, M. M., Glenn, S. A., Eberhard, A. & Gonzalez, J. E. (2003). Quorum sensing controls exopolysaccharide production in Sinorhizobium meliloti. J Bacteriol 185, 325–331. [[Marketon_et+al_QuorumSensingControlsExopolysaccharideProduction_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Glenn%2C%20S.A.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20controls%20exopolysaccharide%20production%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Glenn%2C%20S.A.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20controls%20exopolysaccharide%20production%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Marketon%2C%20M.M.%20Glenn%2C%20S.A.%20Eberhard%2C%20A.%20Gonzalez%2C%20J.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20controls%20exopolysaccharide%20production%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202003)

[^Martınez-Abarca_et+al_1998_a]: Martınez-Abarca, F., Herrera-Cervera, J. A., Bueno, P., Sanjuan, J., Bisseling, T. & Olivares, J. (1998). Involvement of salicylic acid in the establishment of the Rhizobium meliloti-alfalfa symbiosis. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 11, 153–155. [[Martınez-Abarca_et+al_InvolvementSalicylicAcidEstablishmentRhizobium_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mart%C4%B1nez-Abarca%2C%20F.%20Herrera-Cervera%2C%20J.A.%20Bueno%2C%20P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Involvement%20of%20salicylic%20acid%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20Rhizobium%20meliloti-alfalfa%20symbiosis%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mart%C4%B1nez-Abarca%2C%20F.%20Herrera-Cervera%2C%20J.A.%20Bueno%2C%20P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Involvement%20of%20salicylic%20acid%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20Rhizobium%20meliloti-alfalfa%20symbiosis%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mart%C4%B1nez-Abarca%2C%20F.%20Herrera-Cervera%2C%20J.A.%20Bueno%2C%20P.%20Sanjuan%2C%20J.%20Involvement%20of%20salicylic%20acid%20in%20the%20establishment%20of%20the%20Rhizobium%20meliloti-alfalfa%20symbiosis%201998)

[^Mathesius_et+al_2003_a]: Mathesius, U., Mulders, S., Gao, M., Teplitski, M., Caetano-Anolles, G., Rolfe, B. G. & Bauer, W. D. (2003). Extensive and specific responses of a eukaryote to bacterial quorum sensing signals. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 100, 1444–1449. [[Mathesius_et+al_ExtensiveSpecificResponsesEukaryoteBacterial_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Mulders%2C%20S.%20Gao%2C%20M.%20Teplitski%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20and%20specific%20responses%20of%20a%20eukaryote%20to%20bacterial%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Mulders%2C%20S.%20Gao%2C%20M.%20Teplitski%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20and%20specific%20responses%20of%20a%20eukaryote%20to%20bacterial%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mathesius%2C%20U.%20Mulders%2C%20S.%20Gao%2C%20M.%20Teplitski%2C%20M.%20Extensive%20and%20specific%20responses%20of%20a%20eukaryote%20to%20bacterial%202003)

[^Miller_2001_a]: Miller, M. B. & Bassler, B. L. (2001). Quorum sensing in bacteria. Annu Rev Microbiol 55, 165–195. [[Miller_QuorumSensingBacteria_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Miller%2C%20M.B.%20Bassler%2C%20B.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20bacteria%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Miller%2C%20M.B.%20Bassler%2C%20B.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20bacteria%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Miller%2C%20M.B.%20Bassler%2C%20B.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20bacteria%202001)

[^Mitchell_et+al_1986_a]: Mitchell, R. E., Frey, E. J. & Benn, M. K. (1986). Rhizobitoxine and 1-threo-hydroxythreonine production by the plant pathogen Pseudomonas andropogonis. Phytochemistry 25, 2711–2715. [[Mitchell_et+al_Rhizobitoxine1threohydroxythreonineProductionPlantPathogen_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mitchell%2C%20R.E.%20Frey%2C%20E.J.%20Benn%2C%20M.K.%20Rhizobitoxine%20and%201-threo-hydroxythreonine%20production%20by%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20andropogonis%201986) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mitchell%2C%20R.E.%20Frey%2C%20E.J.%20Benn%2C%20M.K.%20Rhizobitoxine%20and%201-threo-hydroxythreonine%20production%20by%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20andropogonis%201986) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mitchell%2C%20R.E.%20Frey%2C%20E.J.%20Benn%2C%20M.K.%20Rhizobitoxine%20and%201-threo-hydroxythreonine%20production%20by%20the%20plant%20pathogen%20Pseudomonas%20andropogonis%201986)

[^Mithofer_et+al_2001_a]: Mithofer, A., Bahgwat, A. A., Keister, D. L. & Ebel, J. (2001). Bradyrhizobium japonicum mutants defective in cyclic a-glucanes synthesis show enhanced sensitivity to plant defense responses. Z Naturforsch 56c, 581–584. [[Mithofer_et+al_BradyrhizobiumJaponicumMutantsDefectiveCyclic_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Bahgwat%2C%20A.A.%20Keister%2C%20D.L.%20Ebel%2C%20J.%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20mutants%20defective%20in%20cyclic%20a-glucanes%20synthesis%20show%20enhanced%20sensitivity%20to%20plant%20defense%20responses%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Bahgwat%2C%20A.A.%20Keister%2C%20D.L.%20Ebel%2C%20J.%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20mutants%20defective%20in%20cyclic%20a-glucanes%20synthesis%20show%20enhanced%20sensitivity%20to%20plant%20defense%20responses%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Bahgwat%2C%20A.A.%20Keister%2C%20D.L.%20Ebel%2C%20J.%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20mutants%20defective%20in%20cyclic%20a-glucanes%20synthesis%20show%20enhanced%20sensitivity%20to%20plant%20defense%20responses%202001)

[^Mudgett_2005_a]: Mudgett, M. B. (2005). New insights to the function of phytopathogenic bacterial type III effectors in plants. Annu Rev Plant Biol 56, 509–531. [[Mudgett_InsightsFunctionPhytopathogenicBacterialType_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mudgett%2C%20M.B.%20New%20insights%20to%20the%20function%20of%20phytopathogenic%20bacterial%20type%20III%20effectors%20in%20plants%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mudgett%2C%20M.B.%20New%20insights%20to%20the%20function%20of%20phytopathogenic%20bacterial%20type%20III%20effectors%20in%20plants%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mudgett%2C%20M.B.%20New%20insights%20to%20the%20function%20of%20phytopathogenic%20bacterial%20type%20III%20effectors%20in%20plants%202005)

[^Perret_et+al_2000_a]: Perret, X., Staehelin, C. & Broughton, W. J. (2000). Molecular basis of symbiotic promiscuity. Microbiol Mol Biol Rev 64, 180–201. [[Perret_et+al_MolecularBasisSymbioticPromiscuity_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Perret%2C%20X.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Molecular%20basis%20of%20symbiotic%20promiscuity%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Perret%2C%20X.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Molecular%20basis%20of%20symbiotic%20promiscuity%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Perret%2C%20X.%20Staehelin%2C%20C.%20Broughton%2C%20W.J.%20Molecular%20basis%20of%20symbiotic%20promiscuity%202000)

[^Pesci_et+al_1999_a]: Pesci, E. C., Milbank, J. B. J., Pearson, J. P., McKnight, S., Kende, A. S., Greenberg, E. P. & Iglewski, B. H. (1999). Quinolone signaling in the cell-to-cell communication system of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 96, 11229–11234. [[Pesci_et+al_QuinoloneSignalingCellcellCommunicationSystem_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pesci%2C%20E.C.%20Milbank%2C%20J.B.J.%20Pearson%2C%20J.P.%20McKnight%2C%20S.%20Quinolone%20signaling%20in%20the%20cell-to-cell%20communication%20system%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pesci%2C%20E.C.%20Milbank%2C%20J.B.J.%20Pearson%2C%20J.P.%20McKnight%2C%20S.%20Quinolone%20signaling%20in%20the%20cell-to-cell%20communication%20system%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pesci%2C%20E.C.%20Milbank%2C%20J.B.J.%20Pearson%2C%20J.P.%20McKnight%2C%20S.%20Quinolone%20signaling%20in%20the%20cell-to-cell%20communication%20system%201999)

[^Quinones_et+al_2005_a]: Quinones, B., Dulla, G. & Lindow, S. E. (2005). Quorum sensing regulates exopolysaccharide production, motility, and virulence in Pseudomonas syringae. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 18, 682–693. [[Quinones_et+al_QuorumSensingRegulatesExopolysaccharideProduction_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Quinones%2C%20B.%20Dulla%2C%20G.%20Lindow%2C%20S.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20regulates%20exopolysaccharide%20production%2C%20motility%2C%20and%20virulence%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Quinones%2C%20B.%20Dulla%2C%20G.%20Lindow%2C%20S.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20regulates%20exopolysaccharide%20production%2C%20motility%2C%20and%20virulence%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Quinones%2C%20B.%20Dulla%2C%20G.%20Lindow%2C%20S.E.%20Quorum%20sensing%20regulates%20exopolysaccharide%20production%2C%20motility%2C%20and%20virulence%20in%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%202005)

[^Riccillo_et+al_2000_a]: Riccillo, P. M., Muglia, C. I., de Bruijn, F. J., Roe, A. J., Booth, I. R. & Aguilar, O. M. (2000). Glutathione is involved in environmental stress responses in Rhizobium tropici, including acid tolerance. J Bacteriol 182, 1748–1753. [[Riccillo_et+al_GlutathioneInvolvedEnvironmentalStressResponses_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Riccillo%2C%20P.M.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20de%20Bruijn%2C%20F.J.%20Roe%2C%20A.J.%20Glutathione%20is%20involved%20in%20environmental%20stress%20responses%20in%20Rhizobium%20tropici%2C%20including%20acid%20tolerance%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riccillo%2C%20P.M.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20de%20Bruijn%2C%20F.J.%20Roe%2C%20A.J.%20Glutathione%20is%20involved%20in%20environmental%20stress%20responses%20in%20Rhizobium%20tropici%2C%20including%20acid%20tolerance%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Riccillo%2C%20P.M.%20Muglia%2C%20C.I.%20de%20Bruijn%2C%20F.J.%20Roe%2C%20A.J.%20Glutathione%20is%20involved%20in%20environmental%20stress%20responses%20in%20Rhizobium%20tropici%2C%20including%20acid%20tolerance%202000)

[^Santos_et+al_2001_a]: Santos, R., Franza, T., Laporte, M. L., Sauvage, C., Touati, D. & Expert, D. (2001). Essential role of superoxide dismutase on the pathogenicity of Erwinia chrysanthemi strain 3937. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 14, 758–767. [[Santos_et+al_EssentialRoleSuperoxideDismutasePathogenicity_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Santos%2C%20R.%20Franza%2C%20T.%20Laporte%2C%20M.L.%20Sauvage%2C%20C.%20Essential%20role%20of%20superoxide%20dismutase%20on%20the%20pathogenicity%20of%20Erwinia%20chrysanthemi%20strain%203937%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Santos%2C%20R.%20Franza%2C%20T.%20Laporte%2C%20M.L.%20Sauvage%2C%20C.%20Essential%20role%20of%20superoxide%20dismutase%20on%20the%20pathogenicity%20of%20Erwinia%20chrysanthemi%20strain%203937%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Santos%2C%20R.%20Franza%2C%20T.%20Laporte%2C%20M.L.%20Sauvage%2C%20C.%20Essential%20role%20of%20superoxide%20dismutase%20on%20the%20pathogenicity%20of%20Erwinia%20chrysanthemi%20strain%203937%202001)

[^Scheidle_et+al_2005_a]: Scheidle, H., Groß, A. & Niehaus, K. (2005). The lipid A substructure of the Sinorhizobium meliloti lipopolysaccharides is sufficient to suppress the oxidative burst in host plants. New Phytol 165, 559–566. [[Scheidle_et+al_LipidASubstructureSinorhizobiumMeliloti_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Scheidle%2C%20H.%20Gro%C3%9F%2C%20A.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20The%20lipid%20A%20substructure%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20lipopolysaccharides%20is%20sufficient%20to%20suppress%20the%20oxidative%20burst%20in%20host%20plants%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheidle%2C%20H.%20Gro%C3%9F%2C%20A.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20The%20lipid%20A%20substructure%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20lipopolysaccharides%20is%20sufficient%20to%20suppress%20the%20oxidative%20burst%20in%20host%20plants%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Scheidle%2C%20H.%20Gro%C3%9F%2C%20A.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20The%20lipid%20A%20substructure%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20lipopolysaccharides%20is%20sufficient%20to%20suppress%20the%20oxidative%20burst%20in%20host%20plants%202005)

[^Shaw_2003_a]: Shaw, S. L. & Long, S. R. (2003). Nod factor inhibition of reactive oxygen efflux in a host legume. Plant Physiol 132, 2196–2204. [[Shaw_FactorInhibitionReactiveOxygenEfflux_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Shaw%2C%20S.L.%20Long%2C%20S.R.%20Nod%20factor%20inhibition%20of%20reactive%20oxygen%20efflux%20in%20a%20host%20legume%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shaw%2C%20S.L.%20Long%2C%20S.R.%20Nod%20factor%20inhibition%20of%20reactive%20oxygen%20efflux%20in%20a%20host%20legume%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Shaw%2C%20S.L.%20Long%2C%20S.R.%20Nod%20factor%20inhibition%20of%20reactive%20oxygen%20efflux%20in%20a%20host%20legume%202003)

[^Skorpil_et+al_2005_a]: Skorpil, P., Saad, M. M., Boukli, N. M., Kobayashi, H., Ares-Orpel, F., Broughton, W. J. & Deakin, W. J. (2005). NopP, a phosphorylated effector of Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234, is a major determinant of nodulation of the tropical legumes Flemingia congesta and Tephrosia vogelii. Mol Microbiol 57, 1304–1317. [[Skorpil_et+al_NoppPhosphorylatedEffectorRhizobium_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Skorpil%2C%20P.%20Saad%2C%20M.M.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20NopP%2C%20a%20phosphorylated%20effector%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20strain%20NGR234%2C%20is%20a%20major%20determinant%20of%20nodulation%20of%20the%20tropical%20legumes%20Flemingia%20congesta%20and%20Tephrosia%20vogelii%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Skorpil%2C%20P.%20Saad%2C%20M.M.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20NopP%2C%20a%20phosphorylated%20effector%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20strain%20NGR234%2C%20is%20a%20major%20determinant%20of%20nodulation%20of%20the%20tropical%20legumes%20Flemingia%20congesta%20and%20Tephrosia%20vogelii%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Skorpil%2C%20P.%20Saad%2C%20M.M.%20Boukli%2C%20N.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20NopP%2C%20a%20phosphorylated%20effector%20of%20Rhizobium%20sp.%20strain%20NGR234%2C%20is%20a%20major%20determinant%20of%20nodulation%20of%20the%20tropical%20legumes%20Flemingia%20congesta%20and%20Tephrosia%20vogelii%202005)

[^van_Sluys_et+al_2002_a]: Van Sluys, M. A., Monteiro-Vitorello, C. B., Camargo, L. E. & 7 other authors (2002). Comparative genomic analysis of plant-associated bacteria. Annu Rev Phytopathol 40, 169–189. [[van_Sluys_et+al_ComparativeGenomicAnalysisPlantassociatedBacteria_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20Sluys%2C%20M.A.%20Monteiro-Vitorello%2C%20C.B.%20Camargo%2C%20L.E.%20Comparative%20genomic%20analysis%20of%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20Sluys%2C%20M.A.%20Monteiro-Vitorello%2C%20C.B.%20Camargo%2C%20L.E.%20Comparative%20genomic%20analysis%20of%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20Sluys%2C%20M.A.%20Monteiro-Vitorello%2C%20C.B.%20Camargo%2C%20L.E.%20Comparative%20genomic%20analysis%20of%20plant-associated%20bacteria%202002)

[^von_Bodman_et+al_2003_a]: Von Bodman, S. B., Bauer, W. D. & Coplin, D. L. (2003). Quorum sensing in plant-pathogenic bacteria. Annu Rev Phytopathol 41, 455–482. [[von_Bodman_et+al_QuorumSensingPlantpathogenicBacteria_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Bauer%2C%20W.D.%20Coplin%2C%20D.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-pathogenic%20bacteria%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Bauer%2C%20W.D.%20Coplin%2C%20D.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-pathogenic%20bacteria%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Von%20Bodman%2C%20S.B.%20Bauer%2C%20W.D.%20Coplin%2C%20D.L.%20Quorum%20sensing%20in%20plant-pathogenic%20bacteria%202003)

[^Wang_et+al_2004_b]: Wang, L. H., He, Y., Gao, Y. & 9 other authors (2004a). A bacterial cell-cell communication signal with cross-kingdom structural analogues. Mol Microbiol 51, 903–912. [[Wang_et+al_OtherAuthors_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20L.H.%20He%2C%20Y.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20other%20authors%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20L.H.%20He%2C%20Y.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20other%20authors%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20L.H.%20He%2C%20Y.%20Gao%2C%20Y.%20other%20authors%202004)

[^Wang_et+al_2004_c]: Wang, H., Zhong, Z., Cai, T., Li, S. & Zhu, J. (2004b). Heterologous overexpression of quorum-sensing regulators to study cell-densitydependent phenotypes in a symbiotic plant bacterium Mesorhizobium huakuii. Arch Microbiol 182, 520–525. [[Wang_et+al_HeterologousOverexpressionQuorumsensingRegulatorsStudy_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Cai%2C%20T.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Heterologous%20overexpression%20of%20quorum-sensing%20regulators%20to%20study%20cell-densitydependent%20phenotypes%20in%20a%20symbiotic%20plant%20bacterium%20Mesorhizobium%20huakuii%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Cai%2C%20T.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Heterologous%20overexpression%20of%20quorum-sensing%20regulators%20to%20study%20cell-densitydependent%20phenotypes%20in%20a%20symbiotic%20plant%20bacterium%20Mesorhizobium%20huakuii%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Cai%2C%20T.%20Li%2C%20S.%20Heterologous%20overexpression%20of%20quorum-sensing%20regulators%20to%20study%20cell-densitydependent%20phenotypes%20in%20a%20symbiotic%20plant%20bacterium%20Mesorhizobium%20huakuii%202004)

[^Winans_1992_a]: Winans, S. C. (1992). Two-way chemical signaling in Agrobacteriumplant interactions. Microbiol Rev 56, 12–31. [[Winans_ChemicalSignalingAgrobacteriumplantInteractions_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Winans%2C%20S.C.%20Two-way%20chemical%20signaling%20in%20Agrobacteriumplant%20interactions%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Winans%2C%20S.C.%20Two-way%20chemical%20signaling%20in%20Agrobacteriumplant%20interactions%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Winans%2C%20S.C.%20Two-way%20chemical%20signaling%20in%20Agrobacteriumplant%20interactions%201992)

[^Xu_2000_a]: Xu, X. Q. & Pan, S. Q. (2000). An Agrobacterium catalase is a virulence factor involved in tumorigenesis. Mol Microbiol 35, 407–414. [[Xu_AgrobacteriumCatalaseVirulenceFactorInvolved_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xu%2C%20X.Q.%20Pan%2C%20S.Q.%20An%20Agrobacterium%20catalase%20is%20a%20virulence%20factor%20involved%20in%20tumorigenesis%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xu%2C%20X.Q.%20Pan%2C%20S.Q.%20An%20Agrobacterium%20catalase%20is%20a%20virulence%20factor%20involved%20in%20tumorigenesis%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xu%2C%20X.Q.%20Pan%2C%20S.Q.%20An%20Agrobacterium%20catalase%20is%20a%20virulence%20factor%20involved%20in%20tumorigenesis%202000)

[^Yao_et+al_2004_a]: Yao, S. Y., Luo, L., Har, K. J., Becker, A., Ruberg, S., Yu, G. Q., Zhu, J. B. & Cheng, H. P. (2004). Sinorhizobium meliloti ExoR and ExoS proteins regulate both succinoglycan and flagellum production. J Bacteriol 186, 6042–6049. [[Yao_et+al_SinorhizobiumMelilotiExorExosProteins_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yao%2C%20S.Y.%20Luo%2C%20L.%20Har%2C%20K.J.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20ExoR%20and%20ExoS%20proteins%20regulate%20both%20succinoglycan%20and%20flagellum%20production%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yao%2C%20S.Y.%20Luo%2C%20L.%20Har%2C%20K.J.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20ExoR%20and%20ExoS%20proteins%20regulate%20both%20succinoglycan%20and%20flagellum%20production%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yao%2C%20S.Y.%20Luo%2C%20L.%20Har%2C%20K.J.%20Becker%2C%20A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20ExoR%20and%20ExoS%20proteins%20regulate%20both%20succinoglycan%20and%20flagellum%20production%202004)

[^Yu_et+al_1999_a]: Yu, J., Penaloza-Vazquez, A., Chakrabarty, A. M. & Bender, C. L. (1999). Involvement of the exopolysaccharide alginate in the virulence and epiphytic fitness of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae. Mol Microbiol 33, 712–720. [[Yu_et+al_InvolvementExopolysaccharideAlginateVirulenceEpiphytic_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yu%2C%20J.%20Penaloza-Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Chakrabarty%2C%20A.M.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20Involvement%20of%20the%20exopolysaccharide%20alginate%20in%20the%20virulence%20and%20epiphytic%20fitness%20of%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%20pv.%20syringae%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20J.%20Penaloza-Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Chakrabarty%2C%20A.M.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20Involvement%20of%20the%20exopolysaccharide%20alginate%20in%20the%20virulence%20and%20epiphytic%20fitness%20of%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%20pv.%20syringae%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yu%2C%20J.%20Penaloza-Vazquez%2C%20A.%20Chakrabarty%2C%20A.M.%20Bender%2C%20C.L.%20Involvement%20of%20the%20exopolysaccharide%20alginate%20in%20the%20virulence%20and%20epiphytic%20fitness%20of%20Pseudomonas%20syringae%20pv.%20syringae%201999)

[^Zheng_et+al_2006_a]: Zheng, H., Zhong, Z., Lai, X., Chen, W. X., Li, S. & Zhu, J. (2006). A LuxR/LuxI-type quorum-sensing system in a plant bacterium, Mesorhizobium tianshanense, controls symbiotic nodulation. J Bacteriol 188, 1943–1949. [[Zheng_et+al_LuxrluxitypeQuorumsensingSystemPlantBacterium_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zheng%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Lai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20W.X.%20A%20LuxR/LuxI-type%20quorum-sensing%20system%20in%20a%20plant%20bacterium%2C%20Mesorhizobium%20tianshanense%2C%20controls%20symbiotic%20nodulation%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zheng%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Lai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20W.X.%20A%20LuxR/LuxI-type%20quorum-sensing%20system%20in%20a%20plant%20bacterium%2C%20Mesorhizobium%20tianshanense%2C%20controls%20symbiotic%20nodulation%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zheng%2C%20H.%20Zhong%2C%20Z.%20Lai%2C%20X.%20Chen%2C%20W.X.%20A%20LuxR/LuxI-type%20quorum-sensing%20system%20in%20a%20plant%20bacterium%2C%20Mesorhizobium%20tianshanense%2C%20controls%20symbiotic%20nodulation%202006)

