[[Tajini_et+al_CombinedInoculationWithGlomusIntraradices_2011]]

# [Combined inoculation with Glomus intraradices and Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 increases phosphorus use efficiency for symbiotic nitrogen fixation in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.)](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.sjbs.2011.11.003)

## [[Fatma Tajini]]; [[Mustapha Trabelsi]]; [[Jean-Jacques Drevon]]

### 2011

## Abstract
This study compared the response of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and rhizobia strain inoculation. Two common bean genotypes i.e. CocoT and ==Flamingo varying in their effectiveness for nitrogen fixation were inoculated with== Glomus intraradices and Rhizobium tropici CIAT899, and grown for 50 days in soil–sand substrate in glasshouse conditions. ==Inoculation of common bean plants with the AM fungi resulted in a significant increase in nodulation compared to plants== without inoculation. ==The combined inoculation of AM fungi and rhizobia significantly increased various plant growth parameters compared to simple inoculated plants==. In addition, the combined inoculation of AM fungi and ==rhizobia resulted in significantly higher nitrogen and phosphorus accumulation in the shoots== of common bean plants and ==improved phosphorus use efficiency compared with their controls==, which were not dually inoculated. It is

## Key concepts
#arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #phosphorus; #claim/rhizobia; #claim/common_bean; #rhizobium; #claim/plant_growth; #glomus; #bacteria; #nitrogen_fixation; #phaseolus_vulgaris; #symbiosis; #glomus_intraradices; #rhizobium_tropici; #rhizobium_leguminosarum

## Quote
> The symbiosis with rhizobia and mycorrhiza under P limitation is a biological technology that may improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation in leguminous plants for an agricultural development that would be friendly to the environment and the consumers


## Key points
- Phosphorus and nitrogen constitute the most limited nutriment for vegetative growth
- Mycorrhiza benefits the host through mobilization of phosphorus from nonlabile sources, whereas rhizobia fixes N2 (Scheublin and Vander Heijden, 2006)
- We focus on interactions between rhizobia and AM fungi with common bean in their influence on plant growth and investigate whether sensitivity of symbiotic nitrogen fixation to phosphorus deficiency was restored by symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in soil condition
- Rhizobial inoculation was performed by soaking the seedlings of common bean for 45 min within a freshly prepared suspension of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 containing 108 bacteria mlÀ1
- Our results have verified the important effects of co-inoculation with rhizobia and AM fungi on common bean growth and the synergistic relationship between rhizobia and AM fungi
- There was no significant difference between both genotypes in root biomass for inoculated or control plants
- The symbiosis with rhizobia and mycorrhiza under P limitation is a biological technology that may improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation in leguminous plants for an agricultural development that would be friendly to the environment and the consumers

## Synopsis

### Introduction
In order to assess the capacity of plant to acquire nutrients, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia are two of the most important plant symbionts.
They play a key role in natural ecosystems and influence plant productivity, plant nutrition and improved inhibition of fungal plant pathogens ([^Demir_2007_a]).
Previous works on the tripartite symbiosis legume–mycorrhiza–rhizobia have shown stimulatory ([^Edwards_et+al_1998_a]; [^Xiao_et+al_2010_a]) or inhibitory ([^Soderberg_et+al_2002_a]; Scheublin and Vander Heijden, 2006; [^Franzini_et+al_2010_a]) effects on each other or on the growth of plants.
The AM fungi themselves have been shown to have an impact on the composition of bacterial communities in their mycelium environment ([^Artursson_et+al_2006_a]</a>)

### Methods
Two common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) genotypes (CocoT and Flamingo) were used in this study grown in sand–soil culture.
The common bean genotypes were inoculated or not with AMF and in both cases received similar rhizobial inoculation.
The common bean genotypes were CocoT and Flamingo.
Seeds were surface-sterilized with 1.3% calcium hypochloride for 15 min with constant stirring, and subsequently washed with sterile distilled water.
They were germinated on 0.8% sterile agar plates for 3 days at 28 °C in the dark, with a germination rate of 80%.
Rhizobial inoculation was performed by soaking the seedlings of common bean for 45 min within a freshly prepared suspension of Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 containing 108 bacteria mlÀ1

### Results
The combination of AMF and CIAT899 induced a significant increase in nodulation whatever the genotypes.
The increases of about 63% and 70% were observed in nodule number of CocoT and Flamingo, respectively, in comparison to that in control plants (Fig. 1b).
Inoculation with AMF increased significantly the nodule mass per plant of 40% with CocoT and 43% with Flamingo without significant difference among genotypes (Fig. 1c).
The highest nodule number per plant was observed with AMF in Coco T.
The lowest nodule biomass was observed in control plants of Flamingo

### Discussion
The highest phosphorus use efficiency and nitrogen accumulation in the present work was obtained in the plants in combination with AMF for both genotypes (Fig. 3a and c) illustrates the relationship between P use efficiency and symbiotic nitrogen fixation ([^Tang_et+al_2001_a]) and demonstrates that the mechanisms affecting the efficiency of absorption and utilization of phosphorus in plants are related to colonization by AMF ([^Bucher_et+al_2001_a]; [^Jia_et+al_2004_a]).
It is believed that mycorrhizae especially benefit plants grown in soils where P is likely to limit plant growth by increasing the soil volume explored by AM hyphae relative to that of root hairs of non-AM plants.
This would agree with previous studies showing highest mycorrhizal benefits to plant growth under moderate P deficiency ([^Mathimaran_et+al_2005_a]; [^Tajini_et+al_2009_a]; [^Xiurong_et+al_2011_a]), especially with leguminous plants harbouring a coarser root system with less extension of root hairs than graminaceous ([^Isobe_1998_a]).
That means that there may be signal coming from the plants, in relation to their P deficiency, that aim at increasing the level of micorrhization

### Conclusion
The authors' results have verified the important effects of co-inoculation with rhizobia and AM fungi on common bean growth and the synergistic relationship between rhizobia and AM fungi.
These results show an interesting practical application for agricultural development in marginal lands that are often deficient in P.
The symbiosis with rhizobia and mycorrhiza under P limitation is a biological technology that may improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation in leguminous plants for an agricultural development that would be friendly to the environment and the consumers

## Data analysis
- #method/general_linear_model
- #method/ANOVA

## Findings
- The increases of about 63% and 70% were observed in nodule number of CocoT and Flamingo, respectively, in comparison to that in control plants (Fig. 1b)
- Inoculation with AMF induced a significant increase in shoot dry weight of 23% and 24% for CocoT and Flamingo, respectively, in comparison to that in control plants
- Also, the root biomass was affected by inoculation with AMF (p = 0.03), but not by genotypic variation (p = 0.54)
- Though, in comparison to control plants, inoculation with AMF induced a significant increase of 39% and 48% in rootgrowth for CocoT and Flamingo, respectively (Fig. 2b)
- On the other hand, there was no significant difference between both genotypes in root biomass for inoculated or control plants
- Biomass partitioning between roots and shoots was significantly affected by AMF inoculation (p = 0.04)
- Data in Fig. 4(a) show that shoot nitrogen percentage (TN) varied among genotypes (p 6 0.05) and was altered by AMF inoculation (p = 0.01)
- Inoculation with AMF induced a significant increase of nitrogen percentage of 42% and 29% with CocoT and Flamingo, respectively, in comparison to that in control plants
- The inoculation with AMF induced a significant increase of 40% and 30% for CocoT and Flamingo, respectively (Fig. 4b)
- Indeed, the inoculation with AMF increased significantly the PUE of 46% and 58% with CocoT and Flamingo respectively

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- It is believed that mycorrhizae especially benefit plants grown in soils where P is likely to limit plant growth by increasing the soil volume explored by AM hyphae relative to that of root hairs of non-AM plants. This would ==agree with previous studies showing highest mycorrhizal benefits to plant growth under moderate P deficiency== ([^Mathimaran_et+al_2005_a]; [^Tajini_et+al_2009_a]; [^Xiurong_et+al_2011_a]), especially with leguminous plants harbouring a coarser root system with less extension of root hairs than graminaceous ([^Isobe_1998_a])
- The obtained results indicated that AMF inoculation of common bean plants significantly increased nitrogen accumulation in the shoot and increased the phosphorus content in both genotypes, compared with their controls which were not dually inoculated (Fig. 4a and b). ==These findings are in agreement with that of== [^Aysan_2009_a]), [^Askar_2010_a]) and [^Xiurong_et+al_2011_a])
- Also, Nautiyal et al (2010) found that the dual inoculation of Cicer arietinum L. with rhizobia and AMF significantly enhanced the number of nodules and the dry weight per plant. Thus, ==the results reported also were confirmed in this study==, that AM symbiosis improved nodulation and N2 fixation and phosphorus use efficiency, causing augmentation of plant growth and indicating intimate interactions between all three partners during co-evolution ([^Demir_2007_a]; [^Stancheva_et+al_2006_a]; [^Xiao_et+al_2010_a])

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- In addition, the AM fungi themselves have also been shown to have an impact on the composition of bacterial communities in their mycelium environment ([^Artursson_et+al_2006_a]</a>). ==On the other hand [^Aysan_2009_a]) reported that the information on the mechanisms controlling interactions of bacteria with AM fungi and plant roots in the mycorrhizosphere and their activities are very difficult to generalize because the interactions involving arbuscular mycorrhiza==, root rot fungi and Rhizobium vary with the microbial species and plant cultivars
- This conclusion disagrees with works in other conditions with other AM fungus and other rhizobial strains that related inhibition of nodule development and N2 fixation, causing diminution of plant growth ([^Franzini_et+al_2010_a]). [^Lisette_et+al_2003_a]) ==reported that co-inoculation with rhizobia and compatible AM fungi could dramatically enhance pea growth, and N and P uptake. Therefore, the AM fungi we used for the present study are compatible with the rhizobial strain and common bean genotypes==, which might have potential for agricultural application

## Contributions
- In conclusion, our results have verified the important effects of co-inoculation with rhizobia and AM fungi on common bean growth and the synergistic relationship between rhizobia and AM fungi. These results show an interesting practical application for agricultural development in marginal lands that are often deficient in P. The symbiosis with rhizobia and mycorrhiza under P limitation is a biological technology that may improve symbiotic nitrogen fixation in leguminous plants for an agricultural development that would be friendly to the environment and the consumers.


## References
[^Andrade_et+al_1997_a]: Andrade, G., Mihara, K.L., Linderman, R.G., Bethlenfalvay, G.J., 1997. Bacteria from rhizosphere and hyphosphere soils of different arbuscular-mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Soil 192, 71–79. [[Andrade_et+al_BacteriaFromRhizosphereHyphosphereSoils_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Andrade%2C%20G.%20Mihara%2C%20K.L.%20Linderman%2C%20R.G.%20Bethlenfalvay%2C%20G.J.%20Bacteria%20from%20rhizosphere%20and%20hyphosphere%20soils%20of%20different%20arbuscular-mycorrhizal%20fungi%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Andrade%2C%20G.%20Mihara%2C%20K.L.%20Linderman%2C%20R.G.%20Bethlenfalvay%2C%20G.J.%20Bacteria%20from%20rhizosphere%20and%20hyphosphere%20soils%20of%20different%20arbuscular-mycorrhizal%20fungi%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Andrade%2C%20G.%20Mihara%2C%20K.L.%20Linderman%2C%20R.G.%20Bethlenfalvay%2C%20G.J.%20Bacteria%20from%20rhizosphere%20and%20hyphosphere%20soils%20of%20different%20arbuscular-mycorrhizal%20fungi%201997)

[^Araujo_et+al_1997_a]: Araujo, A.P., Teixeira, M.G., Almeida, D.L., 1997. Phosphorus efficiency of wild and cultivated genotypes of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) under biological nitrogen fixation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 29, 951–957. [[Araujo_et+al_PhosphorusEfficiencyWildCultivatedGenotypes_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Araujo%2C%20A.P.%20Teixeira%2C%20M.G.%20Almeida%2C%20D.L.%20Phosphorus%20efficiency%20of%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20genotypes%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20under%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Araujo%2C%20A.P.%20Teixeira%2C%20M.G.%20Almeida%2C%20D.L.%20Phosphorus%20efficiency%20of%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20genotypes%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20under%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Araujo%2C%20A.P.%20Teixeira%2C%20M.G.%20Almeida%2C%20D.L.%20Phosphorus%20efficiency%20of%20wild%20and%20cultivated%20genotypes%20of%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20under%20biological%20nitrogen%20fixation%201997)

[^Artursson_et+al_2006_a]: Artursson, V., Finlay, R.D., Jansson, J.K., 2006. Interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and bacteria and their potential for stimulating plant growth. Environ. Microbiol. 8, 1–10. [[Artursson_et+al_InteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Artursson%2C%20V.%20Finlay%2C%20R.D.%20Jansson%2C%20J.K.%20Interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20bacteria%20and%20their%20potential%20for%20stimulating%20plant%20growth%202006)

[^Askar_2010_a]: Askar, A.A., Rashad, Y.M., 2010. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: a biocontrol agent against common bean Fusarium root rot disease. J. Plant Pathol. 9, 31–38. [[Askar_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiBiocontrolAgent_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Askar%2C%20A.A.%20Rashad%2C%20Y.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20biocontrol%20agent%20against%20common%20bean%20Fusarium%20root%20rot%20disease%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Askar%2C%20A.A.%20Rashad%2C%20Y.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20biocontrol%20agent%20against%20common%20bean%20Fusarium%20root%20rot%20disease%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Askar%2C%20A.A.%20Rashad%2C%20Y.M.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%3A%20a%20biocontrol%20agent%20against%20common%20bean%20Fusarium%20root%20rot%20disease%202010)

[^Aysan_2009_a]: Aysan, E., Demir, S., 2009. Using arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Rhizobium leguminosarum, Biovar phaseoli against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum (Lib.) de bary in the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). J. Plant Pathol. 8, 74–78. [[Aysan_UsingArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiRhizobium_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Aysan%2C%20E.%20Demir%2C%20S.%20Using%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%2C%20Biovar%20phaseoli%20against%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%20%28Lib.%29%20de%20bary%20in%20the%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Aysan%2C%20E.%20Demir%2C%20S.%20Using%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%2C%20Biovar%20phaseoli%20against%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%20%28Lib.%29%20de%20bary%20in%20the%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Aysan%2C%20E.%20Demir%2C%20S.%20Using%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%2C%20Biovar%20phaseoli%20against%20Sclerotinia%20sclerotiorum%20%28Lib.%29%20de%20bary%20in%20the%20common%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%202009)

[^Barea_1997_a]: Barea, J.M., 1997. Mycorrhiza-bacteria interactions on plant growth promotion. In: Ogoshi, Kobayashi, Homma, Kodama, Kondo, Akino (Eds.), Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria. OECD Press, Paris, France, pp. 150–158. [[Barea_MycorrhizabacteriaInteractionsPlantGrowthPromotion_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Mycorrhiza-bacteria%20interactions%20on%20plant%20growth%20promotion%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Mycorrhiza-bacteria%20interactions%20on%20plant%20growth%20promotion%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Mycorrhiza-bacteria%20interactions%20on%20plant%20growth%20promotion%201997)

[^Barea_et+al_2002_a]: Barea, J.M., Azcon, R., Azcon-Aguilar, C., 2002. Mycorrhizosphere interactions to improve plant fitness and soil quality. Anton Van Leeuwen 81, 343–351. [[Barea_et+al_MycorrhizosphereInteractionsImprovePlantFitness_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mycorrhizosphere%20interactions%20to%20improve%20plant%20fitness%20and%20soil%20quality%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mycorrhizosphere%20interactions%20to%20improve%20plant%20fitness%20and%20soil%20quality%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barea%2C%20J.M.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Azcon-Aguilar%2C%20C.%20Mycorrhizosphere%20interactions%20to%20improve%20plant%20fitness%20and%20soil%20quality%202002)

[^Bucher_et+al_2001_a]: Bucher, M., Rausch, C., Daram, P., 2001. Molecular and biochemical mechanisms of phosphorus uptake into plants. Soil Plant Sci. 164, 209–217. [[Bucher_et+al_MolecularBiochemicalMechanismsPhosphorusUptake_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Molecular%20and%20biochemical%20mechanisms%20of%20phosphorus%20uptake%20into%20plants%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Molecular%20and%20biochemical%20mechanisms%20of%20phosphorus%20uptake%20into%20plants%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Rausch%2C%20C.%20Daram%2C%20P.%20Molecular%20and%20biochemical%20mechanisms%20of%20phosphorus%20uptake%20into%20plants%202001)

[^Demir_2007_a]: Demir, S., Akkopru, A., 2007. Using of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) for biocontrol of soil-borne fungal plant pathogens. In: Chincholkar, Mukerji (Eds.), Biological control of plant diseases. Haworth Press, USA, pp. 17–37. [[Demir_UsingArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiamf_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Demir%2C%20S.%20Akkopru%2C%20A.%20Using%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizal%20Fungi%20%28AMF%29%20for%20biocontrol%20of%20soil-borne%20fungal%20plant%20pathogens%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Demir%2C%20S.%20Akkopru%2C%20A.%20Using%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizal%20Fungi%20%28AMF%29%20for%20biocontrol%20of%20soil-borne%20fungal%20plant%20pathogens%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Demir%2C%20S.%20Akkopru%2C%20A.%20Using%20of%20Arbuscular%20Mycorrhizal%20Fungi%20%28AMF%29%20for%20biocontrol%20of%20soil-borne%20fungal%20plant%20pathogens%202007)

[^Edwards_et+al_1998_a]: Edwards, S.G., Young, J.P.W., Fitter, A.H., 1998. Interactions between Pseudomonas fluorescens biocontrol agents and Glomus mosseae, an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, within the rhizosphere. FEMS Microbiol. Let. 166, 297–303. [[Edwards_et+al_InteractionsBetweenPseudomonasFluorescensBiocontrol_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20S.G.%20Young%2C%20J.P.W.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Interactions%20between%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20biocontrol%20agents%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20within%20the%20rhizosphere%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20S.G.%20Young%2C%20J.P.W.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Interactions%20between%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20biocontrol%20agents%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20within%20the%20rhizosphere%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20S.G.%20Young%2C%20J.P.W.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Interactions%20between%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20biocontrol%20agents%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%2C%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20within%20the%20rhizosphere%201998)

[^Fitter_1994_a]: Fitter, A.H., Garbaye, J., 1994. Interactions between mycorrhizal fungi and other soil organisms. Plant Soil 159, 123–132. [[Fitter_InteractionsBetweenMycorrhizalFungiOther_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Garbaye%2C%20J.%20Interactions%20between%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20other%20soil%20organisms.%20Plant%20Soil%20159%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Garbaye%2C%20J.%20Interactions%20between%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20other%20soil%20organisms.%20Plant%20Soil%20159%201994) 

[^Franzini_et+al_2010_a]: Franzini, V.I., Azcon, R., Latanze-Mendes, F., Aroca, R., 2010. Interaction between Glomus species and Rhizobium strains affect the nutritional physiology of drought stressed legume hosts. J. Plant Physiol. 167, 614–619. [[Franzini_et+al_InteractionBetweenGlomusSpeciesRhizobium_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Franzini%2C%20V.I.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Latanze-Mendes%2C%20F.%20Aroca%2C%20R.%20Interaction%20between%20Glomus%20species%20and%20Rhizobium%20strains%20affect%20the%20nutritional%20physiology%20of%20drought%20stressed%20legume%20hosts%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Franzini%2C%20V.I.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Latanze-Mendes%2C%20F.%20Aroca%2C%20R.%20Interaction%20between%20Glomus%20species%20and%20Rhizobium%20strains%20affect%20the%20nutritional%20physiology%20of%20drought%20stressed%20legume%20hosts%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Franzini%2C%20V.I.%20Azcon%2C%20R.%20Latanze-Mendes%2C%20F.%20Aroca%2C%20R.%20Interaction%20between%20Glomus%20species%20and%20Rhizobium%20strains%20affect%20the%20nutritional%20physiology%20of%20drought%20stressed%20legume%20hosts%202010)

[^Gamalero_et+al_2004_a]: Gamalero, E., Martinotti, M.G., Trotta, A., Lemanceau, P., Berta, G., 2004. Morphogenetic modifications induced by Pseudomonas fluorescens A6RI and Glomus mosseae BEG12 in the root system of tomato differ according to plant growth conditions. New Phytol. 155, 293–300. [[Gamalero_et+al_MorphogeneticModificationsInducedPseudomonasFluorescens_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gamalero%2C%20E.%20Martinotti%2C%20M.G.%20Trotta%2C%20A.%20Lemanceau%2C%20P.%20Morphogenetic%20modifications%20induced%20by%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20A6RI%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%20BEG12%20in%20the%20root%20system%20of%20tomato%20differ%20according%20to%20plant%20growth%20conditions%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gamalero%2C%20E.%20Martinotti%2C%20M.G.%20Trotta%2C%20A.%20Lemanceau%2C%20P.%20Morphogenetic%20modifications%20induced%20by%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20A6RI%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%20BEG12%20in%20the%20root%20system%20of%20tomato%20differ%20according%20to%20plant%20growth%20conditions%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gamalero%2C%20E.%20Martinotti%2C%20M.G.%20Trotta%2C%20A.%20Lemanceau%2C%20P.%20Morphogenetic%20modifications%20induced%20by%20Pseudomonas%20fluorescens%20A6RI%20and%20Glomus%20mosseae%20BEG12%20in%20the%20root%20system%20of%20tomato%20differ%20according%20to%20plant%20growth%20conditions%202004)

[^Isobe_1998_a]: Isobe, K., Tsuboki, Y., 1998. The relationship between growth promotion by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and root morphology and phosphorus absorption in gramineous and leguminous crops. Crop Sci. 67, 347–352. [[Isobe_RelationshipBetweenGrowthPromotionArbuscular_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Isobe%2C%20K.%20Tsuboki%2C%20Y.%20The%20relationship%20between%20growth%20promotion%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20root%20morphology%20and%20phosphorus%20absorption%20in%20gramineous%20and%20leguminous%20crops%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Isobe%2C%20K.%20Tsuboki%2C%20Y.%20The%20relationship%20between%20growth%20promotion%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20root%20morphology%20and%20phosphorus%20absorption%20in%20gramineous%20and%20leguminous%20crops%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Isobe%2C%20K.%20Tsuboki%2C%20Y.%20The%20relationship%20between%20growth%20promotion%20by%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20root%20morphology%20and%20phosphorus%20absorption%20in%20gramineous%20and%20leguminous%20crops%201998)

[^Jansa_et+al_2002_a]: Jansa, J., Mozafar, A., Anken, T., Ruh, R., Sanders, I.R., Frossard, E., 2002. Diversity and structure of AMF communities as affected by tillage in a temperate soil. Mycorrhiza 12, 225–234. [[Jansa_et+al_DiversityStructureAmfCommunitiesAffected_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Mozafar%2C%20A.%20Anken%2C%20T.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Diversity%20and%20structure%20of%20AMF%20communities%20as%20affected%20by%20tillage%20in%20a%20temperate%20soil%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Mozafar%2C%20A.%20Anken%2C%20T.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Diversity%20and%20structure%20of%20AMF%20communities%20as%20affected%20by%20tillage%20in%20a%20temperate%20soil%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jansa%2C%20J.%20Mozafar%2C%20A.%20Anken%2C%20T.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Diversity%20and%20structure%20of%20AMF%20communities%20as%20affected%20by%20tillage%20in%20a%20temperate%20soil%202002)

[^Jebara_et+al_2001_a]: Jebara, M., Drevon, J.J., Aouani, M.E., 2001. Effects of hydroponic culture system and NaCl on interactions between common bean lines and native rhizobia from Tunisian soils. Agronomie 21, 601– 606. [[Jebara_et+al_EffectsHydroponicCultureSystemNacl_2001]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jebara%2C%20M.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Aouani%2C%20M.E.%20Effects%20of%20hydroponic%20culture%20system%20and%20NaCl%20on%20interactions%20between%20common%20bean%20lines%20and%20native%20rhizobia%20from%20Tunisian%20soils%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jebara%2C%20M.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Aouani%2C%20M.E.%20Effects%20of%20hydroponic%20culture%20system%20and%20NaCl%20on%20interactions%20between%20common%20bean%20lines%20and%20native%20rhizobia%20from%20Tunisian%20soils%202001) 

[^Jia_et+al_2004_a]: Jia, Y., Gray, V.M., Straker, C.J., 2004. The influence of rhizobium and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on nitrogen and phosphorus accumulation by Vicia faba. Ann. Bot. 94, 251–258. [[Jia_et+al_InfluenceRhizobiumArbuscularMycorrhizalFungi_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jia%2C%20Y.%20Gray%2C%20V.M.%20Straker%2C%20C.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20rhizobium%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20accumulation%20by%20Vicia%20faba%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jia%2C%20Y.%20Gray%2C%20V.M.%20Straker%2C%20C.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20rhizobium%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20accumulation%20by%20Vicia%20faba%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jia%2C%20Y.%20Gray%2C%20V.M.%20Straker%2C%20C.J.%20The%20influence%20of%20rhizobium%20and%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20accumulation%20by%20Vicia%20faba%202004)

[^Karandashov_2005_a]: Karandashov, V., Bucher, M., 2005. Symbiotic phosphate transport in arbuscular mycorrhizas. Tren. Plant Sci. 10, 22–29. [[Karandashov_SymbioticPhosphateTransportArbuscularMycorrhizas_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karandashov%2C%20V.%20Bucher%2C%20M.%20Symbiotic%20phosphate%20transport%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizas%202005)

[^Kim_et+al_2010_a]: Kim, K., Yim, W., Trivedi, P., Madhaiyan, M., Hari, P., Boruah, D., Rashedul Islam, Md., Lee, G., Sa, T., 2010. Synergistic effects of inoculating arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Methylobacterium oryzae strains on growth and nutrient uptake of red pepper (Capsicum annuum L.). Plant Soil 327, 429–440. [[Kim_et+al_SynergisticEffectsInoculatingArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20K.%20Yim%2C%20W.%20Trivedi%2C%20P.%20Madhaiyan%2C%20M.%20Synergistic%20effects%20of%20inoculating%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Methylobacterium%20oryzae%20strains%20on%20growth%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20red%20pepper%20%28Capsicum%20annuum%20L.%29.%20Plant%20Soil%20327%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kim%2C%20K.%20Yim%2C%20W.%20Trivedi%2C%20P.%20Madhaiyan%2C%20M.%20Synergistic%20effects%20of%20inoculating%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Methylobacterium%20oryzae%20strains%20on%20growth%20and%20nutrient%20uptake%20of%20red%20pepper%20%28Capsicum%20annuum%20L.%29.%20Plant%20Soil%20327%202010) 

[^Lisette_et+al_2003_a]: Lisette, J., Xavier, C., Germida, J.J., 2003. Selective interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Rhizobium leguminosarum bv, Viceae enhance pea yield and nutrition. Biol. Fertil. Soil. 37, 261–267. [[Lisette_et+al_SelectiveInteractionsBetweenArbuscularMycorrhizal_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lisette%2C%20J.%20Xavier%2C%20C.%20Germida%2C%20J.J.%20Selective%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv%2C%20Viceae%20enhance%20pea%20yield%20and%20nutrition%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lisette%2C%20J.%20Xavier%2C%20C.%20Germida%2C%20J.J.%20Selective%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv%2C%20Viceae%20enhance%20pea%20yield%20and%20nutrition%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lisette%2C%20J.%20Xavier%2C%20C.%20Germida%2C%20J.J.%20Selective%20interactions%20between%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20leguminosarum%20bv%2C%20Viceae%20enhance%20pea%20yield%20and%20nutrition%202003)

[^Mathimaran_et+al_2005_a]: Mathimaran, N., Ruh, R., Vullioud, P., Frossard, E., Jansa, J., 2005. Glomus intraradices dominates arbuscular mycorrhizal communities in a heavy textured agricultural soil. Mycorrhiza 16, 61–66. [[Mathimaran_et+al_GlomusIntraradicesDominatesArbuscularMycorrhizal_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mathimaran%2C%20N.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Vullioud%2C%20P.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20Glomus%20intraradices%20dominates%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20in%20a%20heavy%20textured%20agricultural%20soil%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mathimaran%2C%20N.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Vullioud%2C%20P.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20Glomus%20intraradices%20dominates%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20in%20a%20heavy%20textured%20agricultural%20soil%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mathimaran%2C%20N.%20Ruh%2C%20R.%20Vullioud%2C%20P.%20Frossard%2C%20E.%20Glomus%20intraradices%20dominates%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20communities%20in%20a%20heavy%20textured%20agricultural%20soil%202005)

[^Mcgonigle_et+al_1990_a]: McGonigle, T.P., Miller, M.H., Evan, D.G., Faichild, G.L., Swan, J.A., 1990. A new method which gives an objective measure of colonization of roots by vesicular–arbuscular mycorrhizal fung. New Phytol. 115, 495–501. [[Mcgonigle_et+al_MethodWhichGivesObjectiveMeasure_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=McGonigle%2C%20T.P.%20Miller%2C%20M.H.%20Evan%2C%20D.G.%20Faichild%2C%20G.L.%20A%20new%20method%20which%20gives%20an%20objective%20measure%20of%20colonization%20of%20roots%20by%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fung%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McGonigle%2C%20T.P.%20Miller%2C%20M.H.%20Evan%2C%20D.G.%20Faichild%2C%20G.L.%20A%20new%20method%20which%20gives%20an%20objective%20measure%20of%20colonization%20of%20roots%20by%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fung%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=McGonigle%2C%20T.P.%20Miller%2C%20M.H.%20Evan%2C%20D.G.%20Faichild%2C%20G.L.%20A%20new%20method%20which%20gives%20an%20objective%20measure%20of%20colonization%20of%20roots%20by%20vesicular%E2%80%93arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fung%201990)

[^Mortimer_et+al_2008_a]: Mortimer, P.E., Perez-Fernandez, M.A., Valentine, A.J., 2008. The role of arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization in the carbon and nutrient economy of the tripartite symbiosis with nodulated Phaseolus vulgaris. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40, 1019–1027. [[Mortimer_et+al_RoleArbuscularMycorrhizalColonizationCarbon_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mortimer%2C%20P.E.%20Perez-Fernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Valentine%2C%20A.J.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20in%20the%20carbon%20and%20nutrient%20economy%20of%20the%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20with%20nodulated%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris.%20Soil%20Biol%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mortimer%2C%20P.E.%20Perez-Fernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Valentine%2C%20A.J.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20in%20the%20carbon%20and%20nutrient%20economy%20of%20the%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20with%20nodulated%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris.%20Soil%20Biol%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mortimer%2C%20P.E.%20Perez-Fernandez%2C%20M.A.%20Valentine%2C%20A.J.%20The%20role%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%20in%20the%20carbon%20and%20nutrient%20economy%20of%20the%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20with%20nodulated%20Phaseolus%20vulgaris.%20Soil%20Biol%202008)

[^Nautiyal_et+al_2010_a]: Nautiyal, C.S., Chauhan, P.S., DasGupta, S.M., Seem, K., Varma, A., Staddon, W.J., 2010. Tripartite interactions among Paenibacillus lentimorbus NRRL B-30488, Piriformospora indica DSM 11827, and Cicer arietinum L. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 26, 1393– 1399. [[Nautiyal_et+al_TripartiteInteractionsAmongPaenibacillusLentimorbus_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nautiyal%2C%20C.S.%20Chauhan%2C%20P.S.%20DasGupta%2C%20S.M.%20Seem%2C%20K.%20Tripartite%20interactions%20among%20Paenibacillus%20lentimorbus%20NRRL%20B-30488%2C%20Piriformospora%20indica%20DSM%2011827%2C%20and%20Cicer%20arietinum%20L%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nautiyal%2C%20C.S.%20Chauhan%2C%20P.S.%20DasGupta%2C%20S.M.%20Seem%2C%20K.%20Tripartite%20interactions%20among%20Paenibacillus%20lentimorbus%20NRRL%20B-30488%2C%20Piriformospora%20indica%20DSM%2011827%2C%20and%20Cicer%20arietinum%20L%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nautiyal%2C%20C.S.%20Chauhan%2C%20P.S.%20DasGupta%2C%20S.M.%20Seem%2C%20K.%20Tripartite%20interactions%20among%20Paenibacillus%20lentimorbus%20NRRL%20B-30488%2C%20Piriformospora%20indica%20DSM%2011827%2C%20and%20Cicer%20arietinum%20L%202010)

[^Rodino_et+al_2009_a]: Rodino, A.P., Metrae, R., Guglielmi, S., Drevon, J.J., 2009. Variation among common-bean accessions (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) from the Iberian Peninsula for N2-dependent growth and phosphorus requirement. Symbiosis 47, 161–174. [[Rodino_et+al_VariationAmongCommonbeanAccessionsphaseolus_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rodino%2C%20A.P.%20Metrae%2C%20R.%20Guglielmi%2C%20S.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Variation%20among%20common-bean%20accessions%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20from%20the%20Iberian%20Peninsula%20for%20N2-dependent%20growth%20and%20phosphorus%20requirement%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rodino%2C%20A.P.%20Metrae%2C%20R.%20Guglielmi%2C%20S.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Variation%20among%20common-bean%20accessions%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20from%20the%20Iberian%20Peninsula%20for%20N2-dependent%20growth%20and%20phosphorus%20requirement%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rodino%2C%20A.P.%20Metrae%2C%20R.%20Guglielmi%2C%20S.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Variation%20among%20common-bean%20accessions%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20from%20the%20Iberian%20Peninsula%20for%20N2-dependent%20growth%20and%20phosphorus%20requirement%202009)

[^Scheublin_2006_a]: Scheublin, T.R., Vander Heijden, M.G.A., 2006. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonize nonfixing root nodules of several legume species. New Phytol. 172, 732–738. [[Scheublin_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiColonizeNonfixing_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Vander%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20nonfixing%20root%20nodules%20of%20several%20legume%20species%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Vander%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20nonfixing%20root%20nodules%20of%20several%20legume%20species%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Scheublin%2C%20T.R.%20Vander%20Heijden%2C%20M.G.A.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20colonize%20nonfixing%20root%20nodules%20of%20several%20legume%20species%202006)

[^Smith_2002_a]: Smith, S.E., 2002. Soil microbes and plants––raising interest, mutual gains. New Phytol. 156, 142–144. [[Smith_SoilMicrobesPlantsraisingInterestMutual_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Soil%20microbes%20and%20plants%E2%80%93%E2%80%93raising%20interest%2C%20mutual%20gains%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Soil%20microbes%20and%20plants%E2%80%93%E2%80%93raising%20interest%2C%20mutual%20gains%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Soil%20microbes%20and%20plants%E2%80%93%E2%80%93raising%20interest%2C%20mutual%20gains%202002)

[^Smith_2008_a]: Smith, S.E., Read, D.J., 2008. Mycorrhizal symbioses. Academic Press, London, UK. [[Smith_MycorrhizalSymbioses_2008]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbioses%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20S.E.%20Read%2C%20D.J.%20Mycorrhizal%20symbioses%202008) 

[^Soderberg_et+al_2002_a]: Soderberg, K.H., Olsson, P.A., Baath, E., 2002. Structure and activity of the bacterial community in the rhizosphere of different plant species and the effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 40, 223–231. [[Soderberg_et+al_StructureActivityBacterialCommunityRhizosphere_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Soderberg%2C%20K.H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Structure%20and%20activity%20of%20the%20bacterial%20community%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20different%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20effect%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Soderberg%2C%20K.H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Structure%20and%20activity%20of%20the%20bacterial%20community%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20different%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20effect%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Soderberg%2C%20K.H.%20Olsson%2C%20P.A.%20Baath%2C%20E.%20Structure%20and%20activity%20of%20the%20bacterial%20community%20in%20the%20rhizosphere%20of%20different%20plant%20species%20and%20the%20effect%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20colonization%202002)

[^Stancheva_et+al_2006_a]: Stancheva, I., Geneva, M., Zehirov, G., Tsvetkova, G., Hristozkova, M., Georgiev, G., 2006. Effects of combined inoculation of Pea plants with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Rhizobium on nodule formation and nitrogen fixing activity. Gen. Appl. Plant Physiol., 61–66, Special Issue. [[Stancheva_et+al_EffectsCombinedInoculationPeaPlants_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Stancheva%2C%20I.%20Geneva%2C%20M.%20Zehirov%2C%20G.%20Tsvetkova%2C%20G.%20Effects%20of%20combined%20inoculation%20of%20Pea%20plants%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20on%20nodule%20formation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixing%20activity%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stancheva%2C%20I.%20Geneva%2C%20M.%20Zehirov%2C%20G.%20Tsvetkova%2C%20G.%20Effects%20of%20combined%20inoculation%20of%20Pea%20plants%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20on%20nodule%20formation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixing%20activity%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Stancheva%2C%20I.%20Geneva%2C%20M.%20Zehirov%2C%20G.%20Tsvetkova%2C%20G.%20Effects%20of%20combined%20inoculation%20of%20Pea%20plants%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20Rhizobium%20on%20nodule%20formation%20and%20nitrogen%20fixing%20activity%202006)

[^Tajini_et+al_2009_a]: Tajini, F., Suriyakup, P., Vailhe, H., Jansa, J., Drevon, J.J., 2009. Assess suitability of hydroaeroponic culture to establish tripartite symbiosis between different AMF species, beans, and rhizobia. BMC Plant Biol. 9, 73–81. [[Tajini_et+al_AssessSuitabilityHydroaeroponicCultureEstablish_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tajini%2C%20F.%20Suriyakup%2C%20P.%20Vailhe%2C%20H.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Assess%20suitability%20of%20hydroaeroponic%20culture%20to%20establish%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20between%20different%20AMF%20species%2C%20beans%2C%20and%20rhizobia%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tajini%2C%20F.%20Suriyakup%2C%20P.%20Vailhe%2C%20H.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Assess%20suitability%20of%20hydroaeroponic%20culture%20to%20establish%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20between%20different%20AMF%20species%2C%20beans%2C%20and%20rhizobia%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tajini%2C%20F.%20Suriyakup%2C%20P.%20Vailhe%2C%20H.%20Jansa%2C%20J.%20Assess%20suitability%20of%20hydroaeroponic%20culture%20to%20establish%20tripartite%20symbiosis%20between%20different%20AMF%20species%2C%20beans%2C%20and%20rhizobia%202009)

[^Tang_et+al_2001_a]: Tang, C., Hinsinger, P., Jaillard, B., Rengel, Z., Drevon, J.J., 2001. Effect of phosphorus deficiency on growth, symbiotic N2 fixation and proton release by two bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) genotypes. Agronomie 21, 683–689. [[Tang_et+al_EffectPhosphorusDeficiencyGrowthSymbiotic_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tang%2C%20C.%20Hinsinger%2C%20P.%20Jaillard%2C%20B.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20on%20growth%2C%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20and%20proton%20release%20by%20two%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20genotypes%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tang%2C%20C.%20Hinsinger%2C%20P.%20Jaillard%2C%20B.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20on%20growth%2C%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20and%20proton%20release%20by%20two%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20genotypes%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tang%2C%20C.%20Hinsinger%2C%20P.%20Jaillard%2C%20B.%20Rengel%2C%20Z.%20Effect%20of%20phosphorus%20deficiency%20on%20growth%2C%20symbiotic%20N2%20fixation%20and%20proton%20release%20by%20two%20bean%20%28Phaseolus%20vulgaris%20L.%29%20genotypes%202001)

[^Taussky_1953_a]: Taussky, H.H., Shorr, E., 1953. Microcolorimetric method for the determination of inorganic phosphorus. Biol. Chem. 202, 675–685. [[Taussky_MicrocolorimetricMethodDeterminationInorganicPhosphorus_1953]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Taussky%2C%20H.H.%20Shorr%2C%20E.%20Microcolorimetric%20method%20for%20the%20determination%20of%20inorganic%20phosphorus%201953) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Taussky%2C%20H.H.%20Shorr%2C%20E.%20Microcolorimetric%20method%20for%20the%20determination%20of%20inorganic%20phosphorus%201953) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Taussky%2C%20H.H.%20Shorr%2C%20E.%20Microcolorimetric%20method%20for%20the%20determination%20of%20inorganic%20phosphorus%201953)

[^Vadez_et+al_1996_a]: Vadez, V., Rodier, F., Payre, H., Drevon, J.J., 1996. Nodule permeability to O2 and nitrogenase-linked respiration in bean genotypes varying in the tolerance of N2 fixation to P deficiency. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 34, 871–878. [[Vadez_et+al_NodulePermeabilityO2NitrogenaselinkedRespiration_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vadez%2C%20V.%20Rodier%2C%20F.%20Payre%2C%20H.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Nodule%20permeability%20to%20O2%20and%20nitrogenase-linked%20respiration%20in%20bean%20genotypes%20varying%20in%20the%20tolerance%20of%20N2%20fixation%20to%20P%20deficiency%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vadez%2C%20V.%20Rodier%2C%20F.%20Payre%2C%20H.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Nodule%20permeability%20to%20O2%20and%20nitrogenase-linked%20respiration%20in%20bean%20genotypes%20varying%20in%20the%20tolerance%20of%20N2%20fixation%20to%20P%20deficiency%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vadez%2C%20V.%20Rodier%2C%20F.%20Payre%2C%20H.%20Drevon%2C%20J.J.%20Nodule%20permeability%20to%20O2%20and%20nitrogenase-linked%20respiration%20in%20bean%20genotypes%20varying%20in%20the%20tolerance%20of%20N2%20fixation%20to%20P%20deficiency%201996)

[^Xiao_et+al_2010_a]: Xiao, T.J., Yang, Q.S., Ran, W., Xu, G.H., Shen, Q.R., 2010. Effect of inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus on nitrogen and phosphorus utilization in upland rice-mungbean intercropping system. Agric. Sci. 9, 528–535. [[Xiao_et+al_EffectInoculationWithArbuscularMycorrhizal_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xiao%2C%20T.J.%20Yang%2C%20Q.S.%20Ran%2C%20W.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Effect%20of%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20utilization%20in%20upland%20rice-mungbean%20intercropping%20system%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xiao%2C%20T.J.%20Yang%2C%20Q.S.%20Ran%2C%20W.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Effect%20of%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20utilization%20in%20upland%20rice-mungbean%20intercropping%20system%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xiao%2C%20T.J.%20Yang%2C%20Q.S.%20Ran%2C%20W.%20Xu%2C%20G.H.%20Effect%20of%20inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20on%20nitrogen%20and%20phosphorus%20utilization%20in%20upland%20rice-mungbean%20intercropping%20system%202010)

[^Xiurong_et+al_2011_a]: Xiurong, W., Qiang, P., Fengxian, C., Xiaolong, Y., Hong, L., 2011. Effects of co-inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia on soybean growth as related to root architecture and availability of N and P. Mycorrhiza 21, 173–181. [[Xiurong_et+al_EffectsinoculationWithArbuscularMycorrhizal_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Xiurong%2C%20W.%20Qiang%2C%20P.%20Fengxian%2C%20C.%20Xiaolong%2C%20Y.%20Effects%20of%20co-inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20rhizobia%20on%20soybean%20growth%20as%20related%20to%20root%20architecture%20and%20availability%20of%20N%20and%20P%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Xiurong%2C%20W.%20Qiang%2C%20P.%20Fengxian%2C%20C.%20Xiaolong%2C%20Y.%20Effects%20of%20co-inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20rhizobia%20on%20soybean%20growth%20as%20related%20to%20root%20architecture%20and%20availability%20of%20N%20and%20P%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Xiurong%2C%20W.%20Qiang%2C%20P.%20Fengxian%2C%20C.%20Xiaolong%2C%20Y.%20Effects%20of%20co-inoculation%20with%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20and%20rhizobia%20on%20soybean%20growth%20as%20related%20to%20root%20architecture%20and%20availability%20of%20N%20and%20P%202011)

