[[Tang_et+al_ImprovedGenomeReleaseversionMt40_2014]]

# [An improved genome release (version Mt4.0) for the model legume Medicago truncatula](https://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-15-312)

## [[Haibao Tang]]; [[Vivek Krishnakumar]]; [[Shelby Bidwell]] et al.

### 2014

## Abstract
Background: Medicago truncatula, a close relative of alfalfa, is a preeminent model for studying nitrogen fixation, symbiosis, and legume genomics. The Medicago sequencing project began in 2003 with the goal to decipher sequences originated from the euchromatic portion of the genome. The initial sequencing approach was based on a BAC tiling path, culminating in a BAC-based assembly (Mt3.5) as well as an in-depth analysis of the genome published in 2011.
==Results: Here we describe a further improved and refined version of the M. truncatula genome (Mt4.0) based on de novo whole genome shotgun assembly of a majority of Illumina and 454 reads using ALLPATHS-LG==. The ALLPATHS-LG scaffolds were anchored onto the pseudomolecules on the basis of alignments to both the optical map and the genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) map. The Mt4.0 pseudomolecules encompass ~360 Mb of actual sequences spanning 390 Mb of which ~330 Mb align perfectly with the optical map, presenting a drastic improvement over the BAC-based Mt3.5 which only contained 70% sequences (~250 Mb) of the current version. Most of the sequences and genes that previously resided on the unanchored portion of Mt3.5 have now been incorporated into the Mt4.0 pseudomolecules, with the exception of ~28 Mb of unplaced sequences. With regard to gene annotation, the genome has been re-annotated through our gene prediction pipeline, which integrates EST, RNA-seq, protein and gene prediction evidences. A total of 50,894 genes (31,661 high confidence and 19,233 low confidence) are included in Mt4.0 which overlapped with ~82% of the gene loci annotated in Mt3.5. Of the remaining genes, 14% of the Mt3.5 genes have been deprecated to an “unsupported” status and 4% are absent from the Mt4.0 predictions.
Conclusions: Mt4.0 and its associated resources, such as genome browsers, BLAST-able datasets and gene information pages, can be found on the JCVI Medicago web site (http://www.jcvi.org/medicago). The assembly and annotation has been deposited in GenBank (BioProject: PRJNA10791). The heavily curated chromosomal sequences and associated gene models of Medicago will serve as a better reference for legume biology and comparative genomics.

## Key concepts
#claim/medicago; #legume; #result/JCVI; #claim/whole_genome_shotgun; #claim/whole_genome_duplication; #result/genomics; #result/transposable_element; #result/genome_browser; #national_science_foundation; #result/BLAST; #reference_genome; #biology; #method/genome_assembly; #symbiosis; #gene_annotation; #nitrogen_fixation; #biotechnology_and_biological_sciences_research_council

## Quote
> We describe a further improved and refined version of the M. truncatula genome based on de novo whole genome shotgun assembly of a majority of Illumina and 454 reads using ALLPATHS-LG


## Key points
- Medicago truncatula, a close relative of alfalfa, is a preeminent model for studying nitrogen fixation, symbiosis, and legume genomics
- A high-quality M. truncatula reference genome and gene models provide a solid foundation for plant physiologists and legume biologists, deserve continuous improvement
- The M. truncatula sequencing project began in 2003 with the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the European Union’s Sixth Framework Program providing initial funding to complete sequencing of the euchromatic portion of the genome, which was first estimated to be ~40% of the genome but later re-adjusted to ~280300 Mb, necessitating a second round of NSF funding
- Genome annotation was carried out by the International Medicago Genome Annotation Group (IMGAG; http://medicago. org/genome/IMGAG/), generating a uniform set of annotations of the gene-rich pseudomolecules, the unanchored BACs, and the Illumina assemblies not captured by the BAC-based assemblies
- There are unanchored scaffolds that span 28.4 Mb. This is a dramatic improvement over Mt3.5 which was composed of pseudomolecules spanning 297.1 Mb with 245.3 Mb of real bases, 31.8 Mb of unanchored BAC contigs containing 17.6 Mb of real bases plus 104.2 Mb of relatively short contigs derived from Illumina whole genome shotgun (WGS) sequencing [^3]
- The nearly ~3x fold increase in retained whole genome duplication (WGD) duplicates and the increased synteny block sizes that can be detected are due to the substantial improvement of contiguity in Mt4.0 assembly, and effectively explains the previously claimed discrepancy between Medicago and soybean on the papilionoid WGD event

## Synopsis

### Results
The authors describe a further improved and refined version of the M. truncatula genome (Mt4.0) based on de novo whole genome shotgun assembly of a majority of Illumina and 454 reads using ALLPATHS-LG.
The Mt4.0 pseudomolecules encompass ~360 Mb of actual sequences spanning 390 Mb of which ~330 Mb align perfectly with the optical map, presenting a drastic improvement over the BAC-based Mt3.5 which only contained 70% sequences (~250 Mb) of the current version.
A total of 50,894 genes (31,661 high confidence and 19,233 low confidence) are included in Mt4.0 which overlapped with ~82% of the gene loci annotated in Mt3.5.
14% of the Mt3.5 genes have been deprecated to an “unsupported” status and 4% are absent from the Mt4.0 predictions

### Conclusions
Mt4.0 and its associated resources, such as genome browsers, BLAST-able datasets and gene information pages, can be found on the JCVI Medicago web site.
The heavily curated chromosomal sequences and associated gene models of Medicago will serve as a better reference for legume biology and comparative genomics

### Background
Legumes contribute a significant portion of protein and oil intake in human and animal diets.
Subsequent to the completion of the BAC-based assembly phase, ongoing efforts are aimed at completing the genome and its gene inventory using Generation sequencing methods.
Org/genome/IMGAG/), generating a uniform set of annotations of the gene-rich pseudomolecules, the unanchored BACs, and the Illumina assemblies not captured by the BAC-based assemblies.
Even when the underlying sequences have not been updated, more transcriptional and translational evidence as well as new ab initio prediction methods can improve the annotation of a genome [^6],[^7].
The authors' annotation release contains a set of genes that have retained their overall structures and identifiers, as well as a set of genes that are mostly derived from the new sequences added to the chromosomes that previously resided on unanchored BACs or short Illumina contigs.
The JCVI Medicago website features a number of tools to facilitate queries and navigation of the Mt4.0 genomic datasets

### Methods
Genome assembly overview The new Medicago Mt4.0 assembly is largely based on an ALLPATHS-LG [^10] assembly using a combination of sequence types as described below.
Additional round of gap filling and sequence anchoring The optical map alignment identified all the large components that were not yet placed on the pseudomolecules.
Some unplaced scaffolds that did not have obvious optical map alignments still contained SNP markers or clone ends that were linked to the reconstructed pseudomolecules.
To filter the excessive number of isoforms possibly due to read-mapping artifacts, the authors filtered through these isoforms using the following method: for every locus, identify sets of isoforms sharing the same coding region using the Gene Structure Annotation Comparison (GSAC) tool and retain only the longest transcript within each such set.
The optical maps for all 8 chromosomes are available in the Genbank nucleotide database under accessions MAP_000013 to MAP_000020

### Results and discussion
Completeness The authors report a much-improved Medicago v4 assembly release (Mt4.0).
In tracking the continuity of genome releases, 82% of the ~62,000 genes annotated in Mt3.5 are captured in the current set of high and low confidence predictions with another 14% classified as unsupported.
The nearly ~3x fold increase in retained WGD duplicates and the increased synteny block sizes that can be detected are due to the substantial improvement of contiguity in Mt4.0 assembly, and effectively explains the previously claimed discrepancy between Medicago and soybean on the papilionoid WGD event.
Researchers can become a “community annotator” and be able to edit gene function, gene symbol, associated publications and GenBank identifiers, assign mutant information, alleles and phenotype for any given genes
Through this interface, community members can provide their expertise to annotate or endorse their favorite genes and gene families as a complementary and long-term solution to the continuing Medicago genome curation efforts.
The authors expect to uncover or be informed of errors and omissions in these sequences, and implement the corrections in the Mt5.0 release

### Conclusion
The authors describe a new Medicago truncatula genome release Mt4.0, representing substantial improvements over the previous Mt3.5 which was published in Nature in 2011.
The Mt4.0 assembly has ~93% of the sequences anchored onto the chromosomes and has been carefully validated against the optical map as well as a high-density genetic map.
The heavily curated chromosomal sequences and associated gene models will serve as a much better reference for legume biologists and plant physiologists.
The techniques the authors used are of special interest to researchers who are ‘upgrading’ their reference assemblies and annotations.
Such genome upgrading is getting more popular in recent years due to the drop in sequencing cost.
Availability of supporting data The Mt4.0 assembly and associated gene models are available in GenBank under accession APNO00000000.
All authors read and approved the final manuscript


## Study subjects

### 50894 genes
- With regard to gene annotation, the genome has been re-annotated through our gene prediction pipeline, which integrates EST, RNA-seq, protein and gene prediction evidences. ==A total of 50,894 genes (31,661 high confidence and 19,233 low confidence) are included in Mt4.0 which overlapped with ~82% of the gene loci annotated in Mt3.5==. Of the remaining genes, 14% of the Mt3.5 genes have been deprecated to an “unsupported” status and 4% are absent from the Mt4.0 predictions

### 141 individuals
- Construction of high density linkage map Individuals from a Medicago recombinant inbred line [RIL; DZA315.16 x Jemalong.J6 [^13]] mapping population were used to generate a high density genetic map using the GBS (genotyping-by-sequencing) method [^14]. ==DNA from 141 individuals (among which two individuals were the parental accessions) were digested with the ApeKI restriction enzyme and ligated to Illumina single-end adapters and barcodes==. Following sequencing, GBS reads were deconvoluted and mapped to the ALLPATHS scaffolds using BWA [^15] using only uniquely mapped reads

### 139 individuals
- A SNP marker was considered as ‘segregating’ if the minor allele had a frequency of at least 0.1 (this low threshold was applied in order to include markers on chr3L, most of which showed severe segregation distortion). ==We further required each marker to contain no more than 25% of missing data across 139 individuals to discard noninformative markers==. In summary, the GBS map contains 12,002 SNP markers for 139 mapping individuals

## Data analysis
- #method/BLAST

## Findings
- We further required each marker to contain no more than 25% of missing data across 139 individuals to discard noninformative markers
- The segregation patterns between adjacent GBS markers were compared and a flag was raised when adjacent segregation patterns differed more than 10% (14) of the mapping individuals
- When gapped alignments are allowed, the total coverage of the BACs increased to 94.8%

##  Builds on previous research
- Even when the underlying sequences ==have not been updated, more transcriptional and translational evidence as well as new ab initio prediction methods can improve the annotation of a genome [^6],[^7]. In Mt4.0, we have re-annotated the Medicago gene structures using a hybrid pipeline intended to both preserve well-supported gene structures from Mt3==.5, and also to improve, extend or instantiate novel structures
- The consolidated gene set consisted of the output of the EVM pipeline and gene predictions from the MAKER pipeline that did not intersect with these data sets, which were supplemented with the community contributed annotations. ==The community contributed annotations consisted primarily of small cysteine-rich peptides predicted by the SPADA pipeline [^20], a small number of annotation updates contributed by community members and a small number of updates supported by proteomics data== [^7]
- Within each gene locus, assemblies were filtered to remove any transcripts with low read depth, using RSEM [^27]. Within the set of isoforms that were instantiated, ==we observed two different types of variation==: within the UTR regions which did not affect the encoded protein sequence and within the coding regions which encoded variant proteins

## Contributions
- Mt4.0 and its associated resources, such as genome browsers, BLAST-able datasets and gene information pages, can be found on the JCVI Medicago web site (http://www.jcvi.org/medicago). The assembly and annotation has been deposited in GenBank (BioProject: PRJNA10791). The heavily curated chromosomal sequences and associated gene models of Medicago will serve as a better reference for legume biology and comparative genomics.<br/><br/>Keywords: Medicago, Legume, Genome assembly, Gene annotation, Optical map

## Data and code
- Availability of supporting data The Mt4.0 assembly and associated gene models are available in GenBank under accession APNO00000000. The optical maps are available in the Genbank nucleotide database under accessions MAP_000013 to MAP_000020. Supplementary tables are included as an additional file:Additional file 1: Table S1. Available RNAseq data used in Mt4.0 for UTR and isoform instantiation. Additional file 1: Table S2. Classification of genes into high and low confidence classes.


## References
[^1]: Bennett MD, Leitch IJ. Nuclear DNA amounts in angiosperms: targets, trends and tomorrow. Ann Bot 2011, 107(3):467–590. [[Bennett_NuclearDnaAmountsAngiospermsTargets_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bennett%2C%20M.D.%20Leitch%2C%20I.J.%20Nuclear%20DNA%20amounts%20in%20angiosperms%3A%20targets%2C%20trends%20and%20tomorrow%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bennett%2C%20M.D.%20Leitch%2C%20I.J.%20Nuclear%20DNA%20amounts%20in%20angiosperms%3A%20targets%2C%20trends%20and%20tomorrow%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bennett%2C%20M.D.%20Leitch%2C%20I.J.%20Nuclear%20DNA%20amounts%20in%20angiosperms%3A%20targets%2C%20trends%20and%20tomorrow%202011)

[^2]: Wang D, Griffitts J, Starker C, Fedorova E, Limpens E, Ivanov S, Bisseling T, Long S. A nodule-specific protein secretory pathway required for nitrogen-fixing symbiosis. Science 2010, 327(5969):1126–1129. [[Wang_et+al_NodulespecificProteinSecretoryPathwayRequired_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20D.%20Griffitts%2C%20J.%20Starker%2C%20C.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.%20A%20nodule-specific%20protein%20secretory%20pathway%20required%20for%20nitrogen-fixing%20symbiosis%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20D.%20Griffitts%2C%20J.%20Starker%2C%20C.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.%20A%20nodule-specific%20protein%20secretory%20pathway%20required%20for%20nitrogen-fixing%20symbiosis%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20D.%20Griffitts%2C%20J.%20Starker%2C%20C.%20Fedorova%2C%20E.%20A%20nodule-specific%20protein%20secretory%20pathway%20required%20for%20nitrogen-fixing%20symbiosis%202010)

[^3]: Young ND, Debelle F, Oldroyd GE, Geurts R, Cannon SB, Udvardi MK, Benedito VA, Mayer KF, Gouzy J, Schoof H, Van de Peer Y, Proost S, Cook DR, Meyers BC, Spannagl M, Cheung F, De Mita S, Krishnakumar V, Gundlach H, Zhou S, Mudge J, Bharti AK, Murray JD, Naoumkina MA, Rosen B, Silverstein KA, Tang H, Rombauts S, Zhao PX, Zhou P, et al. The Medicago genome provides insight into the evolution of rhizobial symbioses. Nature 2011, 480(7378):520–524. [[Young_et+al_MedicagoGenomeProvidesInsightInto_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Young%2C%20N.D.%20Debelle%2C%20F.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.%20Geurts%2C%20R.%20The%20Medicago%20genome%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20evolution%20of%20rhizobial%20symbioses%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Young%2C%20N.D.%20Debelle%2C%20F.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.%20Geurts%2C%20R.%20The%20Medicago%20genome%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20evolution%20of%20rhizobial%20symbioses%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Young%2C%20N.D.%20Debelle%2C%20F.%20Oldroyd%2C%20G.E.%20Geurts%2C%20R.%20The%20Medicago%20genome%20provides%20insight%20into%20the%20evolution%20of%20rhizobial%20symbioses%202011)

[^4]: Zhou S, Bechner MC, Place M, Churas CP, Pape L, Leong SA, Runnheim R, Forrest DK, Goldstein S, Livny M, Schwartz DC. Validation of rice genome sequence by optical mapping. BMC Genomics 2007, 8:278. [[Zhou_et+al_ValidationRiceGenomeSequenceOptical_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Bechner%2C%20M.C.%20Place%2C%20M.%20Churas%2C%20C.P.%20Validation%20of%20rice%20genome%20sequence%20by%20optical%20mapping%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Bechner%2C%20M.C.%20Place%2C%20M.%20Churas%2C%20C.P.%20Validation%20of%20rice%20genome%20sequence%20by%20optical%20mapping%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Bechner%2C%20M.C.%20Place%2C%20M.%20Churas%2C%20C.P.%20Validation%20of%20rice%20genome%20sequence%20by%20optical%20mapping%202007)

[^5]: Kawahara Y, de la Bastide M, Hamilton JP, Kanamori H, McCombie WR, Ouyang S, Schwartz DC, Tanaka T, Wu J, Zhou S, Childs KL, Davidson RM, Lin H, Quesada-Ocampo L, Vaillancourt B, Sakai H, Lee SS, Kim J, Numa H, Itoh T, Buell CR, Matsumoto T. Improvement of the Oryza sativa Nipponbare reference genome using next generation sequence and optical map data. Rice 2013, 6(1):4. [[Kawahara_et+al_ImprovementOryzaSativaNipponbareReference_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kawahara%2C%20Y.%20de%20la%20Bastide%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Kanamori%2C%20H.%20Improvement%20of%20the%20Oryza%20sativa%20Nipponbare%20reference%20genome%20using%20next%20generation%20sequence%20and%20optical%20map%20data%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kawahara%2C%20Y.%20de%20la%20Bastide%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Kanamori%2C%20H.%20Improvement%20of%20the%20Oryza%20sativa%20Nipponbare%20reference%20genome%20using%20next%20generation%20sequence%20and%20optical%20map%20data%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kawahara%2C%20Y.%20de%20la%20Bastide%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Kanamori%2C%20H.%20Improvement%20of%20the%20Oryza%20sativa%20Nipponbare%20reference%20genome%20using%20next%20generation%20sequence%20and%20optical%20map%20data%202013)

[^6]: Li Z, Zhang Z, Yan P, Huang S, Fei Z, Lin K. RNA-Seq improves annotation of protein-coding genes in the cucumber genome. BMC Genomics 2011, 12:540. [[Li_et+al_RnaseqImprovesAnnotationProteincodingGenes_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Yan%2C%20P.%20Huang%2C%20S.%20RNA-Seq%20improves%20annotation%20of%20protein-coding%20genes%20in%20the%20cucumber%20genome%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20Z.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Yan%2C%20P.%20Huang%2C%20S.%20RNA-Seq%20improves%20annotation%20of%20protein-coding%20genes%20in%20the%20cucumber%20genome%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20Z.%20Zhang%2C%20Z.%20Yan%2C%20P.%20Huang%2C%20S.%20RNA-Seq%20improves%20annotation%20of%20protein-coding%20genes%20in%20the%20cucumber%20genome%202011)

[^7]: Volkening JD, Bailey DJ, Rose CM, Grimsrud PA, Howes-Podoll M, Venkateshwaran M, Westphall MS, Ane JM, Coon JJ, Sussman MR. A proteogenomic survey of the Medicago truncatula genome. Mol Cell Proteomics: MCP 2012, 11(10):933–944. [[Volkening_et+al_ProteogenomicSurveyMedicagoTruncatulaGenome_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Volkening%2C%20J.D.%20Bailey%2C%20D.J.%20Rose%2C%20C.M.%20Grimsrud%2C%20P.A.%20A%20proteogenomic%20survey%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20genome%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Volkening%2C%20J.D.%20Bailey%2C%20D.J.%20Rose%2C%20C.M.%20Grimsrud%2C%20P.A.%20A%20proteogenomic%20survey%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20genome%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Volkening%2C%20J.D.%20Bailey%2C%20D.J.%20Rose%2C%20C.M.%20Grimsrud%2C%20P.A.%20A%20proteogenomic%20survey%20of%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%20genome%202012)

[^8]: Haas BJ, Salzberg SL, Zhu W, Pertea M, Allen JE, Orvis J, White O, Buell CR, Wortman JR. Automated eukaryotic gene structure annotation using EVidenceModeler and the Program to Assemble Spliced Alignments. Genome Biol 2008, 9(1):R7. [[Haas_et+al_AutomatedEukaryoticGeneStructureAnnotation_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Haas%2C%20B.J.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20Pertea%2C%20M.%20Automated%20eukaryotic%20gene%20structure%20annotation%20using%20EVidenceModeler%20and%20the%20Program%20to%20Assemble%20Spliced%20Alignments%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Haas%2C%20B.J.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20Pertea%2C%20M.%20Automated%20eukaryotic%20gene%20structure%20annotation%20using%20EVidenceModeler%20and%20the%20Program%20to%20Assemble%20Spliced%20Alignments%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Haas%2C%20B.J.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20Pertea%2C%20M.%20Automated%20eukaryotic%20gene%20structure%20annotation%20using%20EVidenceModeler%20and%20the%20Program%20to%20Assemble%20Spliced%20Alignments%202008)

[^9]: Cantarel BL, Korf I, Robb SM, Parra G, Ross E, Moore B, Holt C, Sanchez Alvarado A, Yandell M. MAKER: an easy-to-use annotation pipeline designed for emerging model organism genomes. Genome Res 2008, 18(1):188–196. [[Cantarel_et+al_MakerEasyAnnotationPipelineDesigned_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cantarel%2C%20B.L.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20Robb%2C%20S.M.%20Parra%2C%20G.%20MAKER%3A%20an%20easy-to-use%20annotation%20pipeline%20designed%20for%20emerging%20model%20organism%20genomes%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cantarel%2C%20B.L.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20Robb%2C%20S.M.%20Parra%2C%20G.%20MAKER%3A%20an%20easy-to-use%20annotation%20pipeline%20designed%20for%20emerging%20model%20organism%20genomes%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cantarel%2C%20B.L.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20Robb%2C%20S.M.%20Parra%2C%20G.%20MAKER%3A%20an%20easy-to-use%20annotation%20pipeline%20designed%20for%20emerging%20model%20organism%20genomes%202008)

[^10]: Gnerre S, Maccallum I, Przybylski D, Ribeiro FJ, Burton JN, Walker BJ, Sharpe T, Hall G, Shea TP, Sykes S, Berlin AM, Aird D, Costello M, Daza R, Williams L, Nicol R, Gnirke A, Nusbaum C, Lander ES, Jaffe DB. High-quality draft assemblies of mammalian genomes from massively parallel sequence data. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2011, 108(4):1513–1518. [[Gnerre_et+al_HighqualityDraftAssembliesMammalianGenomes_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gnerre%2C%20S.%20Maccallum%2C%20I.%20Przybylski%2C%20D.%20Ribeiro%2C%20F.J.%20High-quality%20draft%20assemblies%20of%20mammalian%20genomes%20from%20massively%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gnerre%2C%20S.%20Maccallum%2C%20I.%20Przybylski%2C%20D.%20Ribeiro%2C%20F.J.%20High-quality%20draft%20assemblies%20of%20mammalian%20genomes%20from%20massively%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gnerre%2C%20S.%20Maccallum%2C%20I.%20Przybylski%2C%20D.%20Ribeiro%2C%20F.J.%20High-quality%20draft%20assemblies%20of%20mammalian%20genomes%20from%20massively%202011)

[^11]: Luo R, Liu B, Xie Y, Li Z, Huang W, Yuan J, He G, Chen Y, Pan Q, Liu Y, Tang J, Wu G, Zhang H, Shi Y, Liu Y, Yu C, Wang B, Lu Y, Han C, Cheung DW, Yiu SM, Peng S, Xiaoqian Z, Liu G, Liao X, Li Y, Yang H, Wang J, Lam TW, Wang J. SOAPdenovo2: an empirically improved memory-efficient short-read de novo assembler. GigaScience 2012, 1(1):18. [[Luo_et+al_Soapdenovo2EmpiricallyImprovedMemoryefficientShortread_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Luo%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20B.%20Xie%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20SOAPdenovo2%3A%20an%20empirically%20improved%20memory-efficient%20short-read%20de%20novo%20assembler%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Luo%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20B.%20Xie%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20SOAPdenovo2%3A%20an%20empirically%20improved%20memory-efficient%20short-read%20de%20novo%20assembler%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Luo%2C%20R.%20Liu%2C%20B.%20Xie%2C%20Y.%20Li%2C%20Z.%20SOAPdenovo2%3A%20an%20empirically%20improved%20memory-efficient%20short-read%20de%20novo%20assembler%202012)

[^12]: Pop M, Kosack DS, Salzberg SL. Hierarchical scaffolding with Bambus. Genome Res 2004, 14(1):149–159. [[Pop_et+al_HierarchicalScaffoldingWithBambus_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pop%2C%20M.%20Kosack%2C%20D.S.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Hierarchical%20scaffolding%20with%20Bambus%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pop%2C%20M.%20Kosack%2C%20D.S.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Hierarchical%20scaffolding%20with%20Bambus%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pop%2C%20M.%20Kosack%2C%20D.S.%20Salzberg%2C%20S.L.%20Hierarchical%20scaffolding%20with%20Bambus%202004)

[^13]: Ben C, Toueni M, Montanari S, Tardin MC, Fervel M, Negahi A, Saint-Pierre L, Mathieu G, Gras MC, Noel D, Prosperi JM, Pilet-Nayel ML, Baranger A, Huguet T, Julier B. Natural diversity in the model legume Medicago truncatula allows identifying distinct genetic mechanisms conferring partial resistance to Verticillium wilt. J Exp Bot 2013, 64(1):317–332. [[Ben_et+al_NaturalDiversityModelLegumeMedicago_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ben%2C%20C.%20Toueni%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20S.%20Tardin%2C%20M.C.%20Natural%20diversity%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20allows%20identifying%20distinct%20genetic%20mechanisms%20conferring%20partial%20resistance%20to%20Verticillium%20wilt%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ben%2C%20C.%20Toueni%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20S.%20Tardin%2C%20M.C.%20Natural%20diversity%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20allows%20identifying%20distinct%20genetic%20mechanisms%20conferring%20partial%20resistance%20to%20Verticillium%20wilt%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ben%2C%20C.%20Toueni%2C%20M.%20Montanari%2C%20S.%20Tardin%2C%20M.C.%20Natural%20diversity%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20allows%20identifying%20distinct%20genetic%20mechanisms%20conferring%20partial%20resistance%20to%20Verticillium%20wilt%202013)

[^14]: Elshire RJ, Glaubitz JC, Sun Q, Poland JA, Kawamoto K, Buckler ES, Mitchell SE. A robust, simple genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) approach for high diversity species. PLoS One 2011, 6(5):e19379. [[Elshire_et+al_RobustSimpleGenotypingsequencinggbsApproach_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Elshire%2C%20R.J.%20Glaubitz%2C%20J.C.%20Sun%2C%20Q.%20Poland%2C%20J.A.%20A%20robust%2C%20simple%20genotyping-by-sequencing%20%28GBS%29%20approach%20for%20high%20diversity%20species%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Elshire%2C%20R.J.%20Glaubitz%2C%20J.C.%20Sun%2C%20Q.%20Poland%2C%20J.A.%20A%20robust%2C%20simple%20genotyping-by-sequencing%20%28GBS%29%20approach%20for%20high%20diversity%20species%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Elshire%2C%20R.J.%20Glaubitz%2C%20J.C.%20Sun%2C%20Q.%20Poland%2C%20J.A.%20A%20robust%2C%20simple%20genotyping-by-sequencing%20%28GBS%29%20approach%20for%20high%20diversity%20species%202011)

[^15]: Li H, Durbin R. Fast and accurate short read alignment with Burrows-Wheeler transform. Bioinformatics 2009, 25(14):1754–1760. [[Li_FastAccurateShortReadAlignment_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20H.%20Durbin%2C%20R.%20Fast%20and%20accurate%20short%20read%20alignment%20with%20Burrows-Wheeler%20transform%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20H.%20Durbin%2C%20R.%20Fast%20and%20accurate%20short%20read%20alignment%20with%20Burrows-Wheeler%20transform%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20H.%20Durbin%2C%20R.%20Fast%20and%20accurate%20short%20read%20alignment%20with%20Burrows-Wheeler%20transform%202009)

[^16]: Li H. A statistical framework for SNP calling, mutation discovery, association mapping and population genetical parameter estimation from sequencing data. Bioinformatics 2011, 27(21):2987–2993. [[Li_StatisticalFrameworkSnpCallingMutation_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20H.%20A%20statistical%20framework%20for%20SNP%20calling%2C%20mutation%20discovery%2C%20association%20mapping%20and%20population%20genetical%20parameter%20estimation%20from%20sequencing%20data%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20H.%20A%20statistical%20framework%20for%20SNP%20calling%2C%20mutation%20discovery%2C%20association%20mapping%20and%20population%20genetical%20parameter%20estimation%20from%20sequencing%20data%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20H.%20A%20statistical%20framework%20for%20SNP%20calling%2C%20mutation%20discovery%2C%20association%20mapping%20and%20population%20genetical%20parameter%20estimation%20from%20sequencing%20data%202011)

[^17]: Valouev A, Li L, Liu YC, Schwartz DC, Yang Y, Zhang Y, Waterman MS. Alignment of optical maps. J Comput Biol 2006, 13(2):442–462. [[Valouev_et+al_AlignmentOpticalMaps_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Valouev%2C%20A.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Liu%2C%20Y.C.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.C.%20Alignment%20of%20optical%20maps%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Valouev%2C%20A.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Liu%2C%20Y.C.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.C.%20Alignment%20of%20optical%20maps%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Valouev%2C%20A.%20Li%2C%20L.%20Liu%2C%20Y.C.%20Schwartz%2C%20D.C.%20Alignment%20of%20optical%20maps%202006)

[^18]: Zhou S, Wei F, Nguyen J, Bechner M, Potamousis K, Goldstein S, Pape L, Mehan MR, Churas C, Pasternak S, Forrest DK, Wise R, Ware D, Wing RA, Waterman MS, Livny M, Schwartz DC. A single molecule scaffold for the maize genome. PLoS Genet 2009, 5(11):e1000711. [[Zhou_et+al_SingleMoleculeScaffoldMaizeGenome_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Wei%2C%20F.%20Nguyen%2C%20J.%20Bechner%2C%20M.%20A%20single%20molecule%20scaffold%20for%20the%20maize%20genome%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Wei%2C%20F.%20Nguyen%2C%20J.%20Bechner%2C%20M.%20A%20single%20molecule%20scaffold%20for%20the%20maize%20genome%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhou%2C%20S.%20Wei%2C%20F.%20Nguyen%2C%20J.%20Bechner%2C%20M.%20A%20single%20molecule%20scaffold%20for%20the%20maize%20genome%202009)

[^19]: Teague B, Waterman MS, Goldstein S, Potamousis K, Zhou S, Reslewic S, Sarkar D, Valouev A, Churas C, Kidd JM, Kohn S, Runnheim R, Lamers C, Forrest D, Newton MA, Eichler EE, Kent-First M, Surti U, Livny M, Schwartz DC. High-resolution human genome structure by single-molecule analysis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2010, 107(24):10848–10853. [[Teague_et+al_HighresolutionHumanGenomeStructure_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Teague%2C%20B.%20Waterman%2C%20M.S.%20Goldstein%2C%20S.%20Potamousis%2C%20K.%20High-resolution%20human%20genome%20structure%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Teague%2C%20B.%20Waterman%2C%20M.S.%20Goldstein%2C%20S.%20Potamousis%2C%20K.%20High-resolution%20human%20genome%20structure%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Teague%2C%20B.%20Waterman%2C%20M.S.%20Goldstein%2C%20S.%20Potamousis%2C%20K.%20High-resolution%20human%20genome%20structure%202010)

[^20]: Zhou P, Silverstein KA, Gao L, Walton JD, Nallu S, Guhlin J, Young ND. Detecting small plant peptides using SPADA (Small Peptide Alignment Discovery Application). BMC Bioinformatics 2013, 14:335. [[Zhou_et+al_DetectingSmallPlantPeptidesUsing_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhou%2C%20P.%20Silverstein%2C%20K.A.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Walton%2C%20J.D.%20Detecting%20small%20plant%20peptides%20using%20SPADA%20%28Small%20Peptide%20Alignment%20Discovery%20Application%29%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhou%2C%20P.%20Silverstein%2C%20K.A.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Walton%2C%20J.D.%20Detecting%20small%20plant%20peptides%20using%20SPADA%20%28Small%20Peptide%20Alignment%20Discovery%20Application%29%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhou%2C%20P.%20Silverstein%2C%20K.A.%20Gao%2C%20L.%20Walton%2C%20J.D.%20Detecting%20small%20plant%20peptides%20using%20SPADA%20%28Small%20Peptide%20Alignment%20Discovery%20Application%29%202013)

[^21]: Min XJ, Butler G, Storms R, Tsang A. TargetIdentifier: a webserver for identifying full-length cDNAs from EST sequences. Nucleic Acids Res 2005, 33(Web Server issue):W669–W672. [[Min_et+al_TargetidentifierWebserverIdentifyingFulllengthCdnas_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Min%20XJ%20Butler%20G%20Storms%20R%20Tsang%20A%20TargetIdentifier%20a%20webserver%20for%20identifying%20fulllength%20cDNAs%20from%20EST%20sequences%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202005%2033Web%20Server%20issueW669W672) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Min%20XJ%20Butler%20G%20Storms%20R%20Tsang%20A%20TargetIdentifier%20a%20webserver%20for%20identifying%20fulllength%20cDNAs%20from%20EST%20sequences%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202005%2033Web%20Server%20issueW669W672) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Min%20XJ%20Butler%20G%20Storms%20R%20Tsang%20A%20TargetIdentifier%20a%20webserver%20for%20identifying%20fulllength%20cDNAs%20from%20EST%20sequences%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202005%2033Web%20Server%20issueW669W672)

[^22]: Skinner ME, Uzilov AV, Stein LD, Mungall CJ, Holmes IH. JBrowse: a next-generation genome browser. Genome Res 2009, 19(9):1630–1638. [[Skinner_et+al_MungallCjHolmesIhJbrowse_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Skinner%2C%20M.E.%20Uzilov%2C%20A.V.%20Stein%2C%20L.D.%20Mungall%20CJ%2C%20Holmes%20IH.%20JBrowse%3A%20a%20next-generation%20genome%20browser%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Skinner%2C%20M.E.%20Uzilov%2C%20A.V.%20Stein%2C%20L.D.%20Mungall%20CJ%2C%20Holmes%20IH.%20JBrowse%3A%20a%20next-generation%20genome%20browser%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Skinner%2C%20M.E.%20Uzilov%2C%20A.V.%20Stein%2C%20L.D.%20Mungall%20CJ%2C%20Holmes%20IH.%20JBrowse%3A%20a%20next-generation%20genome%20browser%202009)

[^23]: Lowe TM, Eddy SR: tRNAscan-SE: a program for improved detection of transfer RNA genes in genomic sequence. Nucleic Acids Res 1997, 25(5):955–964. [[Lowe_SrTrnascanseProgramImprovedDetection_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lowe%2C%20T.M.%20Eddy%20SR%3A%20tRNAscan-SE%3A%20a%20program%20for%20improved%20detection%20of%20transfer%20RNA%20genes%20in%20genomic%20sequence%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lowe%2C%20T.M.%20Eddy%20SR%3A%20tRNAscan-SE%3A%20a%20program%20for%20improved%20detection%20of%20transfer%20RNA%20genes%20in%20genomic%20sequence%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lowe%2C%20T.M.%20Eddy%20SR%3A%20tRNAscan-SE%3A%20a%20program%20for%20improved%20detection%20of%20transfer%20RNA%20genes%20in%20genomic%20sequence%201997)

[^24]: Rice P, Longden I, Bleasby A. EMBOSS: the European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite. Trends Genet 2000, 16(6):276–277. [[Rice_et+al_EmbossEuropeanMolecularBiologyOpen_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rice%2C%20P.%20Longden%2C%20I.%20Bleasby%2C%20A.%20EMBOSS%3A%20the%20European%20Molecular%20Biology%20Open%20Software%20Suite%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rice%2C%20P.%20Longden%2C%20I.%20Bleasby%2C%20A.%20EMBOSS%3A%20the%20European%20Molecular%20Biology%20Open%20Software%20Suite%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rice%2C%20P.%20Longden%2C%20I.%20Bleasby%2C%20A.%20EMBOSS%3A%20the%20European%20Molecular%20Biology%20Open%20Software%20Suite%202000)

[^25]: Haas BJ, Delcher AL, Mount SM, Wortman JR, Smith RK Jr, Hannick LI, Maiti R, Ronning CM, Rusch DB, Town CD, Salzberg SL, White O: Improving the Arabidopsis genome annotation using maximal transcript alignment assemblies. Nucleic Acids Res 2003, 31(19):5654–5666. [[Haas_WhiteOImprovingArabidopsisGenome_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Haas%20BJ%20Delcher%20AL%20Mount%20SM%20Wortman%20JR%20Smith%20RK%20Jr%20Hannick%20LI%20Maiti%20R%20Ronning%20CM%20Rusch%20DB%20Town%20CD%20Salzberg%20SL%20White%20O%20Improving%20the%20Arabidopsis%20genome%20annotation%20using%20maximal%20transcript%20alignment%20assemblies%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202003%20311956545666) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Haas%20BJ%20Delcher%20AL%20Mount%20SM%20Wortman%20JR%20Smith%20RK%20Jr%20Hannick%20LI%20Maiti%20R%20Ronning%20CM%20Rusch%20DB%20Town%20CD%20Salzberg%20SL%20White%20O%20Improving%20the%20Arabidopsis%20genome%20annotation%20using%20maximal%20transcript%20alignment%20assemblies%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202003%20311956545666) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Haas%20BJ%20Delcher%20AL%20Mount%20SM%20Wortman%20JR%20Smith%20RK%20Jr%20Hannick%20LI%20Maiti%20R%20Ronning%20CM%20Rusch%20DB%20Town%20CD%20Salzberg%20SL%20White%20O%20Improving%20the%20Arabidopsis%20genome%20annotation%20using%20maximal%20transcript%20alignment%20assemblies%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%202003%20311956545666)

[^26]: Grabherr MG, Haas BJ, Yassour M, Levin JZ, Thompson DA, Amit I, Adiconis X, Fan L, Raychowdhury R, Zeng Q, Chen Z, Mauceli E, Hacohen N, Gnirke A, Rhind N, di Palma F, Birren BW, Nusbaum C, Lindblad-Toh K, Friedman N, Regev A. Full-length transcriptome assembly from RNA-Seq data without a reference genome. Nat Biotechnol 2011, 29(7):644–652. [[Grabherr_et+al_FulllengthTranscriptomeAssemblyFromRnaseq_2011]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grabherr%2C%20M.G.%20Haas%2C%20B.J.%20Yassour%2C%20M.%20Levin%2C%20J.Z.%20Full-length%20transcriptome%20assembly%20from%20RNA-Seq%20data%20without%20a%20reference%20genome%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Grabherr%2C%20M.G.%20Haas%2C%20B.J.%20Yassour%2C%20M.%20Levin%2C%20J.Z.%20Full-length%20transcriptome%20assembly%20from%20RNA-Seq%20data%20without%20a%20reference%20genome%202011) 

[^27]: Li B, Dewey CN. RSEM: accurate transcript quantification from RNA-Seq data with or without a reference genome. BMC Bioinformatics 2011, 12:323. [[Li_RsemAccurateTranscriptQuantificationFrom_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Li%2C%20B.%20Dewey%2C%20C.N.%20RSEM%3A%20accurate%20transcript%20quantification%20from%20RNA-Seq%20data%20with%20or%20without%20a%20reference%20genome%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Li%2C%20B.%20Dewey%2C%20C.N.%20RSEM%3A%20accurate%20transcript%20quantification%20from%20RNA-Seq%20data%20with%20or%20without%20a%20reference%20genome%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Li%2C%20B.%20Dewey%2C%20C.N.%20RSEM%3A%20accurate%20transcript%20quantification%20from%20RNA-Seq%20data%20with%20or%20without%20a%20reference%20genome%202011)

[^28]: Kielbasa SM, Wan R, Sato K, Horton P, Frith MC. Adaptive seeds tame genomic sequence comparison. Genome Res 2011, 21(3):487–493. [[Kielbasa_et+al_AdaptiveSeedsTameGenomicSequence_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kielbasa%2C%20S.M.%20Wan%2C%20R.%20Sato%2C%20K.%20Horton%2C%20P.%20Adaptive%20seeds%20tame%20genomic%20sequence%20comparison%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kielbasa%2C%20S.M.%20Wan%2C%20R.%20Sato%2C%20K.%20Horton%2C%20P.%20Adaptive%20seeds%20tame%20genomic%20sequence%20comparison%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kielbasa%2C%20S.M.%20Wan%2C%20R.%20Sato%2C%20K.%20Horton%2C%20P.%20Adaptive%20seeds%20tame%20genomic%20sequence%20comparison%202011)

[^29]: Tang H, Lyons E, Pedersen B, Schnable JC, Paterson AH, Freeling M. Screening synteny blocks in pairwise genome comparisons through integer programming. BMC Bioinformatics 2011, 12:102. [[Tang_et+al_ScreeningSyntenyBlocksPairwiseGenome_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tang%2C%20H.%20Lyons%2C%20E.%20Pedersen%2C%20B.%20Schnable%2C%20J.C.%20Screening%20synteny%20blocks%20in%20pairwise%20genome%20comparisons%20through%20integer%20programming%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tang%2C%20H.%20Lyons%2C%20E.%20Pedersen%2C%20B.%20Schnable%2C%20J.C.%20Screening%20synteny%20blocks%20in%20pairwise%20genome%20comparisons%20through%20integer%20programming%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tang%2C%20H.%20Lyons%2C%20E.%20Pedersen%2C%20B.%20Schnable%2C%20J.C.%20Screening%20synteny%20blocks%20in%20pairwise%20genome%20comparisons%20through%20integer%20programming%202011)

[^30]: Parra G, Bradnam K, Korf I. CEGMA: a pipeline to accurately annotate core genes in eukaryotic genomes. Bioinformatics 2007, 23(9):1061–1067. [[Parra_et+al_CegmaPipelineAccuratelyAnnotateCore_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%2C%20K.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20CEGMA%3A%20a%20pipeline%20to%20accurately%20annotate%20core%20genes%20in%20eukaryotic%20genomes%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%2C%20K.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20CEGMA%3A%20a%20pipeline%20to%20accurately%20annotate%20core%20genes%20in%20eukaryotic%20genomes%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%2C%20K.%20Korf%2C%20I.%20CEGMA%3A%20a%20pipeline%20to%20accurately%20annotate%20core%20genes%20in%20eukaryotic%20genomes%202007)

[^31]: Kamphuis LG, Williams AH, D’Souza NK, Pfaff T, Ellwood SR, Groves EJ, Singh KB, Oliver RP, Lichtenzveig J: The Medicago truncatula reference accession A17 has an aberrant chromosomal configuration. New Phytol 2007, 174(2):299–303. [[Kamphuis_et+al_LichtenzveigJMedicagoTruncatulaReference_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kamphuis%2C%20L.G.%20Williams%2C%20A.H.%20D%E2%80%99Souza%2C%20N.K.%20Pfaff%2C%20T.%20Lichtenzveig%20J%3A%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20reference%20accession%20A17%20has%20an%20aberrant%20chromosomal%20configuration%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kamphuis%2C%20L.G.%20Williams%2C%20A.H.%20D%E2%80%99Souza%2C%20N.K.%20Pfaff%2C%20T.%20Lichtenzveig%20J%3A%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20reference%20accession%20A17%20has%20an%20aberrant%20chromosomal%20configuration%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kamphuis%2C%20L.G.%20Williams%2C%20A.H.%20D%E2%80%99Souza%2C%20N.K.%20Pfaff%2C%20T.%20Lichtenzveig%20J%3A%20The%20Medicago%20truncatula%20reference%20accession%20A17%20has%20an%20aberrant%20chromosomal%20configuration%202007)

[^32]: Julier B, Huguet T, Chardon F, Ayadi R, Pierre JB, Prosperi JM, Barre P, Huyghe C. Identification of quantitative trait loci influencing aerial morphogenesis in the model legume Medicago truncatula. Theor Appl Genet 2007, 114(8):1391–1406. [[Julier_et+al_IdentificationQuantitativeTraitLociInfluencing_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Julier%2C%20B.%20Huguet%2C%20T.%20Chardon%2C%20F.%20Ayadi%2C%20R.%20Identification%20of%20quantitative%20trait%20loci%20influencing%20aerial%20morphogenesis%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Julier%2C%20B.%20Huguet%2C%20T.%20Chardon%2C%20F.%20Ayadi%2C%20R.%20Identification%20of%20quantitative%20trait%20loci%20influencing%20aerial%20morphogenesis%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Julier%2C%20B.%20Huguet%2C%20T.%20Chardon%2C%20F.%20Ayadi%2C%20R.%20Identification%20of%20quantitative%20trait%20loci%20influencing%20aerial%20morphogenesis%20in%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202007)

[^33]: Jiang N, Bao Z, Zhang X, Eddy SR, Wessler SR. Pack-MULE transposable elements mediate gene evolution in plants. Nature 2004, 431(7008):569–573. [[Jiang_PackmuleTransposableElementsMediateGene_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%20N%20Bao%20Z%20Zhang%20X%20Eddy%20SR%20Wessler%20SR%20PackMULE%20transposable%20elements%20mediate%20gene%20evolution%20in%20plants%20Nature%202004%204317008569573) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%20N%20Bao%20Z%20Zhang%20X%20Eddy%20SR%20Wessler%20SR%20PackMULE%20transposable%20elements%20mediate%20gene%20evolution%20in%20plants%20Nature%202004%204317008569573) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%20N%20Bao%20Z%20Zhang%20X%20Eddy%20SR%20Wessler%20SR%20PackMULE%20transposable%20elements%20mediate%20gene%20evolution%20in%20plants%20Nature%202004%204317008569573)

[^34]: Lai J, Li Y, Messing J, Dooner HK. Gene movement by Helitron transposons contributes to the haplotype variability of maize. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2005, 102(25):9068–9073. [[Lai_et+al_GeneMovementHelitronTransposonsContributes_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lai%2C%20J.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Messing%2C%20J.%20Dooner%2C%20H.K.%20Gene%20movement%20by%20Helitron%20transposons%20contributes%20to%20the%20haplotype%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lai%2C%20J.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Messing%2C%20J.%20Dooner%2C%20H.K.%20Gene%20movement%20by%20Helitron%20transposons%20contributes%20to%20the%20haplotype%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lai%2C%20J.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Messing%2C%20J.%20Dooner%2C%20H.K.%20Gene%20movement%20by%20Helitron%20transposons%20contributes%20to%20the%20haplotype%202005)

[^35]: Foissac S, Gouzy J, Rombauts S, Mathe C, Amselem J, Sterck L, Van de Peer Y, Rouze P, Schiex T. Genome Annotation in Plants and Fungi: EuGene as a Model Platform. In Current Bioinformatics, Volume 3.; 2008:87–97 (11). [[Foissac_et+al_GenomeAnnotationPlantsFungiEugene_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Foissac%2C%20S.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Mathe%2C%20C.%20Genome%20Annotation%20in%20Plants%20and%20Fungi%3A%20EuGene%20as%20a%20Model%20Platform%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Foissac%2C%20S.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Mathe%2C%20C.%20Genome%20Annotation%20in%20Plants%20and%20Fungi%3A%20EuGene%20as%20a%20Model%20Platform%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Foissac%2C%20S.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Mathe%2C%20C.%20Genome%20Annotation%20in%20Plants%20and%20Fungi%3A%20EuGene%20as%20a%20Model%20Platform%202008)

[^36]: Schmutz J, Cannon SB, Schlueter J, Ma J, Mitros T, Nelson W, Hyten DL, Song Q, Thelen JJ, Cheng J, Xu D, Hellsten U, May GD, Yu Y, Sakurai T, Umezawa T, Bhattacharyya MK, Sandhu D, Valliyodan B, Lindquist E, Peto M, Grant D, Shu S, Goodstein D, Barry K, Futrell-Griggs M, Abernathy B, Du J, Tian Z, Zhu L, et al. Genome sequence of the palaeopolyploid soybean. Nature 2010, 463(7278):178–183. [[Schmutz_et+al_Futrellgriggs_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schmutz%2C%20J.%20Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Schlueter%2C%20J.%20Ma%2C%20J.%20Futrell-Griggs%202010-05) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schmutz%2C%20J.%20Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Schlueter%2C%20J.%20Ma%2C%20J.%20Futrell-Griggs%202010-05) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schmutz%2C%20J.%20Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Schlueter%2C%20J.%20Ma%2C%20J.%20Futrell-Griggs%202010-05)

[^37]: Cannon SB, Sterck L, Rombauts S, Sato S, Cheung F, Gouzy J, Wang X, Mudge J, Vasdewani J, Schiex T, Spannagl M, Monaghan E, Nicholson C, Humphray SJ, Schoof H, Mayer KF, Rogers J, Quetier F, Oldroyd GE, Debelle F, Cook DR, Retzel EF, Roe BA, Town CD, Tabata S, Van de Peer Y, Young ND. Legume genome evolution viewed through the Medicago truncatula and Lotus japonicus genomes. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2006, 103(40):14959–14964. [[Cannon_et+al_LegumeGenomeEvolutionViewedThrough_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Sterck%2C%20L.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Sato%2C%20S.%20Legume%20genome%20evolution%20viewed%20through%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Sterck%2C%20L.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Sato%2C%20S.%20Legume%20genome%20evolution%20viewed%20through%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cannon%2C%20S.B.%20Sterck%2C%20L.%20Rombauts%2C%20S.%20Sato%2C%20S.%20Legume%20genome%20evolution%20viewed%20through%20the%20Medicago%20truncatula%202006)

[^38]: Varshney RK, Chen W, Li Y, Bharti AK, Saxena RK, Schlueter JA, Donoghue MT, Azam S, Fan G, Whaley AM, Farmer AD, Sheridan J, Iwata A, Tuteja R, Penmetsa RV, Wu W, Upadhyaya HD, Yang SP, Shah T, Saxena KB, Michael T, McCombie WR, Yang B, Zhang G, Yang H, Wang J, Spillane C, Cook DR, May GD, Xu X, et al. Draft genome sequence of pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan), an orphan legume crop of resource-poor farmers. Nat Biotechnol 2012, 30(1):83–89. [[Varshney_et+al_Yang_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Chen%2C%20W.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Bharti%2C%20A.K.%20Yang%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Chen%2C%20W.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Bharti%2C%20A.K.%20Yang%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Chen%2C%20W.%20Li%2C%20Y.%20Bharti%2C%20A.K.%20Yang%202012)

[^39]: Varshney RK, Song C, Saxena RK, Azam S, Yu S, Sharpe AG, Cannon S, Baek J, Rosen BD, Tar’an B, Millan T, Zhang X, Ramsay LD, Iwata A, Wang Y, Nelson W, Farmer AD, Gaur PM, Soderlund C, Penmetsa RV, Xu C, Bharti AK, He W, Winter P, Zhao S, Hane JK, Carrasquilla-Garcia N, Condie JA, Upadhyaya HD, Luo MC, et al: Draft genome sequence of chickpea (Cicer arietinum) provides a resource for trait improvement. Nat Biotechnol 2013, 31(3):240–246. [[Varshney_et+al_DraftGenomeSequenceChickpea_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Saxena%2C%20R.K.%20Azam%2C%20S.%20et%20al%3A%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20chickpea%20%28Cicer%20arietinum%29%20provides%20a%20resource%20for%20trait%20improvement%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Saxena%2C%20R.K.%20Azam%2C%20S.%20et%20al%3A%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20chickpea%20%28Cicer%20arietinum%29%20provides%20a%20resource%20for%20trait%20improvement%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Varshney%2C%20R.K.%20Song%2C%20C.%20Saxena%2C%20R.K.%20Azam%2C%20S.%20et%20al%3A%20Draft%20genome%20sequence%20of%20chickpea%20%28Cicer%20arietinum%29%20provides%20a%20resource%20for%20trait%20improvement%202013)

[^40]: Thibaud-Nissen F, Campbell M, Hamilton JP, Zhu W, Buell CR. EuCAP, a Eukaryotic Community Annotation Package, and its application to the rice genome. BMC Genomics 2007, 8:388. [[Thibaud-Nissen_et+al_EucapEukaryoticCommunityAnnotationPackage_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thibaud-Nissen%2C%20F.%20Campbell%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20EuCAP%2C%20a%20Eukaryotic%20Community%20Annotation%20Package%2C%20and%20its%20application%20to%20the%20rice%20genome%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thibaud-Nissen%2C%20F.%20Campbell%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20EuCAP%2C%20a%20Eukaryotic%20Community%20Annotation%20Package%2C%20and%20its%20application%20to%20the%20rice%20genome%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thibaud-Nissen%2C%20F.%20Campbell%2C%20M.%20Hamilton%2C%20J.P.%20Zhu%2C%20W.%20EuCAP%2C%20a%20Eukaryotic%20Community%20Annotation%20Package%2C%20and%20its%20application%20to%20the%20rice%20genome%202007)

[^41]: VandenBosch KA, Frugoli J. Guidelines for genetic nomenclature and community governance for the model legume Medicago truncatula. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 2001, 14(12):1364–1367. [[Vandenbosch_GuidelinesGeneticNomenclatureCommunityGovernance_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=VandenBosch%2C%20K.A.%20Frugoli%2C%20J.%20Guidelines%20for%20genetic%20nomenclature%20and%20community%20governance%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=VandenBosch%2C%20K.A.%20Frugoli%2C%20J.%20Guidelines%20for%20genetic%20nomenclature%20and%20community%20governance%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=VandenBosch%2C%20K.A.%20Frugoli%2C%20J.%20Guidelines%20for%20genetic%20nomenclature%20and%20community%20governance%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%202001)

[^42]: Swain MT, Tsai IJ, Assefa SA, Newbold C, Berriman M, Otto TD. A post-assembly genome-improvement toolkit (PAGIT) to obtain annotated genomes from contigs. Nat Protoc 2012, 7(7):1260–1284. doi:10.1186/1471-2164-15-312 [[Swain_et+al_PostassemblyGenomeimprovementToolkitpagitObtain_2012]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-15-312)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1186/1471-2164-15-312)

[^Cite_2014_a]: Cite this article as: Tang et al.: An improved genome release (version Mt4.0) for the model legume Medicago truncatula. BMC Genomics 2014 15:312. [[Cite_CiteThisArticleTang_2014]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cite%20this%20article%20as%20Tang%20et%20al%20An%20improved%20genome%20release%20version%20Mt40%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20BMC%20Genomics%202014%2015312) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cite%20this%20article%20as%20Tang%20et%20al%20An%20improved%20genome%20release%20version%20Mt40%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20BMC%20Genomics%202014%2015312) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cite%20this%20article%20as%20Tang%20et%20al%20An%20improved%20genome%20release%20version%20Mt40%20for%20the%20model%20legume%20Medicago%20truncatula%20BMC%20Genomics%202014%2015312)

