[[Tisserant_et+al_GenomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusProvides_2013]]

# [Genome of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the oldest plant symbiosis](https://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1313452110)

## [[E. Tisserant]]; [[M. Malbreil]]; [[A. Kuo]] et al.

### 2013

## Abstract
The mutualistic symbiosis involving Glomeromycota, a distinctive phylum of early diverging Fungi, is widely hypothesized to have promoted the evolution of land plants during the middle Paleozoic. These arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) perform vital functions in the phosphorus cycle that are fundamental to sustainable crop plant productivity. The unusual biological features of AMF have long fascinated evolutionary biologists. The coenocytic hyphae host a community of hundreds of nuclei and reproduce clonShawna Roweally through large multinucleated spores. ==It has been suggested that the AMF maintain a stable assemblage of several different genomes== during the life cycle, but this genomic organization has been questioned. Here we introduce the 153-Mb haploid genome of Rhizophagus irregularis and its repertoire of 28,232 genes. The Shawna Roweobserved low level of genome polymorphism (0.43 SNP per kb) is not consistent with the occurrence of multiple, highly diverged genomes. ==The expansion of mating-related genes suggests the existence of cryptic sex-related processes==. ==A comparison of gene Shawna Rowecategories confirms that R. irregularis is close to the== Mucoromycotina. ==The AMF obligate biotrophy is not explained by genome erosion== or any related loss of metabolic complexity in central metabolism, but is marked by a lack of genes encoding plant cell walldegrading enzymes and ==of genes involved in toxin== and thiamine synthesis. A battery of mycorrhiza-induced ==secreted proteins is expressed in symbiotic tissues==. ==The present comprehensive repertoire of R. irregularis genes provides a basis for future research on symbiosis-related mechanisms== in Glomeromycota.

## Key concepts
#claim/single_nucleotide_polymorphism; #arbuscular_mycorrhizal_fungi; #claim/symbiosis; #claim/glomus; #finding/transposable_elements; #biotrophy; #claim/rhizophagus_irregularis; #genetics; #obligate_biotrophy; #land_plant; #paleozoic; #phosphorus_cycle

## Quote
> Assuming that the Transposable elements abundance of fosmids holds for the whole genome, this would contain ∼55 Mb of repeated sequences, possibly reflecting a lack of efficient control mechanisms to prevent the expansion of repetitive elements and their subsequent elimination


## Key points
- The mutualistic symbiosis involving Glomeromycota, a distinctive phylum of early diverging Fungi, is widely hypothesized to have promoted the evolution of land plants during the middle Paleozoic
- This mutualistic symbiosis is widely hypothesized to have promoted the evolution of land plants from rootless gametophytes to rooted sporophytes during the mid-Paleozoic [^1], [^2]
- To investigate the gene repertoire and genomic polymorphism of R. irregularis, we sequenced the genomic DNA from multinucleated hyphae of the strain DAOM-197198 grown in root culture of carrot (Daucus carota) (Fig. 1)
- The genome size of R. irregularis is among the largest fungal genome sequenced to date, along with the obligate biotrophic powdery mildews [^20] and the ectomycorrhizal symbiont Tuber melanosporum [^21]
- Assuming that the Transposable elements (TEs) abundance of fosmids (36%) holds for the whole genome, this would contain ∼55 Mb of repeated sequences, possibly reflecting a lack of efficient control mechanisms to prevent the expansion of repetitive elements and their subsequent elimination
- We investigated the presence of potential idiomorphs in these MATA-HMGs by isolating their respective alleles from three genetically different strains of R. irregularis

## Synopsis

### Shawna Rowe
Genetic variation has been observed within AMF in ribosomal DNA and in other regions of the genome [^11].
Another study failed to find evidence for heterokaryosis, and the authors suggested that the genetic variation that they observed potentially could be due to polyploidy, no studies of ploidy were conducted [^14].
A recent study of Rhizophagus irregularis provided further evidence in favor of heterokaryosis [^15], so this remains an open question.
Another hypothesis, specific for multicopy ribosomal DNA, is that variation among copies could exist within nuclei of a homokaryotic AM fungus and this is supported by some studies [^14], [^16].
The authors focus on the genome polymorphism, annotation, and transcript profiling of gene families likely to be involved in symbiosis, to reveal adaptation processes for growth in planta

### Results and Discussion
Using identical coverage and quality thresholds, the authors estimated the SNP rate of the assembled genomes as 0.06 SNP per kb in the homokaryotic ascomycete T. melanosporum and 0.78 SNP per kb in the dikaryotic basidiomycete Laccaria bicolor
These findings allow them to reject the hypothesis that large sequence polymorphism occurs among coexisting nuclei in the DAOM-197198 isolate; the density of SNPs suggests some allelic variation among nuclei, likely reflecting the limited opportunities for recombination and related sequence homogenization during the life cycle.
Gene loss in DAOM-197198 may occur at a much lower rate than typically observed; eight hidden components contributing to the distribution were detected (SI Appendix, Fig. S8), potentially representing remnants of large-scale duplication events under an alternative scenario.
All but the model component representing the youngest paralogs were enriched for genes annotated to contribute to biological processes related to phosphorus metabolism and

### Genomic reads
Illumina genomic reads from R. irregularis DAOM-197198 were mapped to the R. irregularis Gloin assembly.
The authors confirm the previous findings of sex-related genes, and show that the number of MATA-HMGs present in the genome of R. irregularis that harbor a MATA domain, or that share similarities with mating-type (MAT)-like HMGs from other fungi, is much larger than previously identified by mining transcriptome sequences (SI Appendix, section 1.6, Fig. S19 and Table S17).
The expression of effector-like MiSSPs and the lack of PCW-degrading and toxin-synthesizing enzymes are hallmarks of R. irregularis
These features suggest a functional converging evolution with phylogenetically unrelated biotrophic pathogens [^20], [^26] and ectomycorrhizal symbionts [^21], [^24].
The present comprehensive repertoire of R. irregularis genes provides a basis for future research on symbiosis-related mechanisms and the ecological genomics of Glomeromycota

### Methods
Detailed descriptions of materials and methods are provided in SI Appendix, Methods.
The genome of the multinucleated mycelium of R. irregularis DAOM-197198 was sequenced using Sanger, 454, Illumina, and PacBio platforms and assembled using the CLC Genomic Workbench assembler.
Gene models were predicted and validated using computational tools, and RNASeq transcriptomics were annotated using the Joint Genome Institute annotation pipeline.
Gene expression of R. irregularis and Medicago truncatula was assessed using RNA-Seq


## Study subjects

### 28232 genes
- It has been suggested that the AMF maintain a stable assemblage of several different genomes during the life cycle, but this genomic organization has been questioned. ==Here we introduce the 153-Mb haploid genome of Rhizophagus irregularis and its repertoire of 28,232 genes==. The Shawna Roweobserved low level of genome polymorphism (0.43 SNP per kb) is not consistent with the occurrence of multiple, highly diverged genomes

### 15 genes
- The Rhizophagus Gene Repertoire. ==Of the 28,232 protein-coding 15 genes predicted (Fig. 2 and SI Appendix, Figs==. S1 and S10), 23,561 high-confidence genes had transcriptomic support (RNAShawna Rowe Seq) and/or showed sequence similarity to documented proteins and/or domains (SI Appendix, sections 1.6 and 1.8 and Tables S3 16 and S4)

### 23561 high-confidence genes
- Of the 28,232 protein-coding 15 genes predicted (Fig. 2 and SI Appendix, Figs. ==S1 and S10), 23,561 high-confidence genes had transcriptomic support (RNAShawna Rowe Seq) and/or showed sequence similarity to documented proteins and/or domains (SI Appendix, sections 1.6 and 1.8 and Tables S3 16 and S4)==. Only 62% of the high-confidence genes showed sequence similarity to documented proteins and/or domains (SI Shawna Rowe Appendix, Figs

## Findings
- Transposable elements (TEs) compose 11% of the assembly (Fig. 2 and SI Appendix, section 1.5, Table S1 and Figs
- S3–S5), but fosmid Sanger sequencing showed a much higher TE abundance (36%), including several retrotransposons
- Assuming that the TE abundance of fosmids (36%) holds for the whole genome, this would contain ∼55 Mb of repeated sequences, possibly reflecting a lack of efficient control mechanisms to prevent the expansion of repetitive elements and their subsequent elimination
- The proportion of contigs sharing significant similarity (>90% identity) with at least one other contig of >1,000 bp was low (5.6%) and involved mostly repetitive sequences
- 62% of the high-confidence genes showed sequence similarity to documented proteins and/or domains (SI Shawna Rowe Appendix, Figs
- It is unlikely that the aforementioned gene sets were missed because of incomplete Shawna Rowegenome coverage, given that the R. irregularis assembly encompasses 98% of conserved core eukaryotic single-copy genes [^17]

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- AMF have long been considered ancient clonal organisms, but recent studies have revealed the presence of many AMF homologs of genes known to be involved in sexual reproduction in other fungi, including meiosis-specific genes [^7], [^30] and an expanded gene family harboring a mating-type-related high mobility group domain (MATA-HMGs) [^31]. ==Here we confirm the previous findings of sex-related genes==, and also show that the number of MATA-HMGs present in the genome of R. irregularis that harbor a MATA domain, or that share similarities with mating-type (MAT)-like HMGs from other fungi, is much larger than previously identified by mining transcriptome sequences (SI Appendix, section 1.6, Fig. S19 and Table S17)

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- Another study failed to find evidence for heterokaryosis, however, and the authors suggested that the genetic variation that they observed potentially could be due to polyploidy, although no studies of ploidy were conducted [^14]. A ==recent study of Rhizophagus irregularis (but not isolate DAOM-197198) provided further evidence in favor of heterokaryosis [^15], so this remains an open question==
- The inability of R. irregularis to grow in vitro suggests that the obligate biotroph genome may lack genes typically present in autotrophic fungi. Thus, ==we systematically searched for genes absent in R. irregularis, the obligate biotrophic pathogen Blumeria graminis [^20], and early diverging Mucoromycotina and Chytridiomycota genomes== [^23] but present in the well-annotated yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) genome (SI Appendix, Table S9)

## Contributions
- In conclusion, the occurrence of multiple highly diverged genomes in the multinucleated R. irregularis is not supported by the present study. Ancient whole-genome duplication and TE proliferation likely have promoted massive gene duplications. The R. irregularis genome shares many features with fungi belonging to Mucoromycotina (e.g., homokaryotic organization in coenocytic hyphae, similar core metabolic pathways), suggesting that Glomeromycota have strong phylogenetic relationships with these early diverging fungi. On the other hand, the expression of effector-like MiSSPs and the lack of PCW-degrading and toxin-synthesizing enzymes are hallmarks of R. irregularis. These features suggest a functional converging evolution with phylogenetically unrelated biotrophic pathogens [^20], [^26] and ectomycorrhizal symbionts [^21], [^24]. In contrast, the obligate biotrophic lifestyle of R. irregularis is not associated with a significant reduction in genes involved in nitrogen and sulfur assimilation, as observed in many obligate biotrophic leaf pathogens [^20], [^26], but is associated with the high expression of genes involved in nutrient uptake [^8]. Thus, R. irregularis has the dual ability to interact with the soil environment with respect to mineral nutrient uptake and to integrate the complex cues imposed by its in planta life. The present comprehensive repertoire of R. irregularis genes provides a basis for future research on symbiosis-related mechanisms and the ecological genomics of Glomeromycota.

## Data and code
- supporting information online at www.pnas.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10. 1073/pnas.1313452110/-/DCSupplemental.


## References
[^1]: Remy W, Taylor TN, Hass H, Kerp H (1994) Four hundred-million-year-old vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizae. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 91(25):11841–11843. [[Remy_et+al_FourHundredmillionyear_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Remy%2C%20W.%20Taylor%2C%20T.N.%20Hass%2C%20H.%20Kerp%2C%20H.%20Four%20hundred-million-year-old%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Remy%2C%20W.%20Taylor%2C%20T.N.%20Hass%2C%20H.%20Kerp%2C%20H.%20Four%20hundred-million-year-old%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Remy%2C%20W.%20Taylor%2C%20T.N.%20Hass%2C%20H.%20Kerp%2C%20H.%20Four%20hundred-million-year-old%201994)

[^2]: Redecker D, Kodner R, Graham LE (2000) Glomalean fungi from the Ordovician. Science 289(5486):1920–1921. [[Redecker_et+al_GlomaleanFungiFromOrdovician_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Redecker%2C%20D.%20Kodner%2C%20R.%20Graham%2C%20L.E.%20Glomalean%20fungi%20from%20the%20Ordovician%202000)

[^3]: Bucher M (2007) Functional biology of plant phosphate uptake at root and mycorrhiza interfaces. New Phytol 173(1):11–26. [[Bucher_FunctionalBiologyPlantPhosphateUptake_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Functional%20biology%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20uptake%20at%20root%20and%20mycorrhiza%20interfaces%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Functional%20biology%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20uptake%20at%20root%20and%20mycorrhiza%20interfaces%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bucher%2C%20M.%20Functional%20biology%20of%20plant%20phosphate%20uptake%20at%20root%20and%20mycorrhiza%20interfaces%202007)

[^4]: Ceballos I, et al. (2013) The in vitro mass-produced model mycorrhizal fungus, Rhizophagus irregularis, significantly increases yields of the globally important food security crop cassava. PLoS ONE 8(8):e70633. [[Ceballos_VitroMassproducedModelMycorrhizalFungus_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ceballos%2C%20I.%20The%20in%20vitro%20mass-produced%20model%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20significantly%20increases%20yields%20of%20the%20globally%20important%20food%20security%20crop%20cassava%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ceballos%2C%20I.%20The%20in%20vitro%20mass-produced%20model%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20significantly%20increases%20yields%20of%20the%20globally%20important%20food%20security%20crop%20cassava%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ceballos%2C%20I.%20The%20in%20vitro%20mass-produced%20model%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%2C%20Rhizophagus%20irregularis%2C%20significantly%20increases%20yields%20of%20the%20globally%20important%20food%20security%20crop%20cassava%202013)

[^5]: Rosendahl S (2008) Communities, populations and individuals of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytol 178(2):253–266. [[Rosendahl_CommunitiesPopulationsIndividualsArbuscularMycorrhizal_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20Communities%2C%20populations%20and%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20Communities%2C%20populations%20and%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rosendahl%2C%20S.%20Communities%2C%20populations%20and%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202008)

[^6]: Sanders IR (1999) Evolutionary genetics. No sex please, we’re fungi. Nature 399(6738): 737–739. [[Sanders_EvolutionaryGeneticsNoPlease_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evolutionary%20genetics.%20No%20sex%20please%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20fungi%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evolutionary%20genetics.%20No%20sex%20please%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20fungi%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evolutionary%20genetics.%20No%20sex%20please%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20fungi%201999)

[^7]: Halary S, et al. (2011) Conserved meiotic machinery in Glomus spp., a putatively ancient asexual fungal lineage. Genome Biol Evol 3:950–958. [[Halary_ConservedMeioticMachineryGlomus_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Halary%2C%20S.%20Conserved%20meiotic%20machinery%20in%20Glomus%20spp.%2C%20a%20putatively%20ancient%20asexual%20fungal%20lineage%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Halary%2C%20S.%20Conserved%20meiotic%20machinery%20in%20Glomus%20spp.%2C%20a%20putatively%20ancient%20asexual%20fungal%20lineage%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Halary%2C%20S.%20Conserved%20meiotic%20machinery%20in%20Glomus%20spp.%2C%20a%20putatively%20ancient%20asexual%20fungal%20lineage%202011)

[^8]: Tisserant E, et al. (2012) The transcriptome of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices (DAOM 197198) reveals functional tradeoffs in an obligate symbiont. New Phytol 193(3):755–769. [[Tisserant_TranscriptomeArbuscularMycorrhizalFungusGlomus_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tisserant%2C%20E.%20The%20transcriptome%20of%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20intraradices%202012)

[^10]: Croll D, Sanders IR (2009) Recombination in Glomus intraradices, a supposed ancient asexual arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. BMC Evol Biol 9:13. [[Croll_RecombinationGlomusIntraradicesSupposedAncient_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Croll%2C%20D.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Recombination%20in%20Glomus%20intraradices%2C%20a%20supposed%20ancient%20asexual%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Croll%2C%20D.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Recombination%20in%20Glomus%20intraradices%2C%20a%20supposed%20ancient%20asexual%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Croll%2C%20D.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Recombination%20in%20Glomus%20intraradices%2C%20a%20supposed%20ancient%20asexual%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%202009)

[^11]: Sanders IR, Croll D (2010) Arbuscular mycorrhiza: The challenge to understand the genetics of the fungal partner. Annu Rev Genet 44:271–292. [[Sanders_ArbuscularMycorrhizaChallengeUnderstandGenetics_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20The%20challenge%20to%20understand%20the%20genetics%20of%20the%20fungal%20partner%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20The%20challenge%20to%20understand%20the%20genetics%20of%20the%20fungal%20partner%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%3A%20The%20challenge%20to%20understand%20the%20genetics%20of%20the%20fungal%20partner%202010)

[^12]: Kuhn G, Hijri M, Sanders IR (2001) Evidence for the evolution of multiple genomes in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Nature 414(6865):745–748. [[Kuhn_et+al_EvidenceEvolutionMultipleGenomesArbuscular_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kuhn%2C%20G.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20multiple%20genomes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kuhn%2C%20G.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20multiple%20genomes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kuhn%2C%20G.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Evidence%20for%20the%20evolution%20of%20multiple%20genomes%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202001)

[^13]: Hijri M, Sanders IR (2005) Low gene copy number shows that arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inherit genetically different nuclei. Nature 433(7022):160–163. [[Hijri_GeneCopyNumberShowsThat_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Low%20gene%20copy%20number%20shows%20that%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20inherit%20genetically%20different%20nuclei%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Low%20gene%20copy%20number%20shows%20that%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20inherit%20genetically%20different%20nuclei%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hijri%2C%20M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Low%20gene%20copy%20number%20shows%20that%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20inherit%20genetically%20different%20nuclei%202005)

[^14]: Pawlowska TE, Taylor JW (2004) Organization of genetic variation in individuals of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Nature 427(6976):733–737. [[Pawlowska_OrganizationGeneticVariationIndividualsArbuscular_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Taylor%2C%20J.W.%20Organization%20of%20genetic%20variation%20in%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Taylor%2C%20J.W.%20Organization%20of%20genetic%20variation%20in%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pawlowska%2C%20T.E.%20Taylor%2C%20J.W.%20Organization%20of%20genetic%20variation%20in%20individuals%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202004)

[^15]: Ehinger MO, Croll D, Koch AM, Sanders IR (2012) Significant genetic and phenotypic changes arising from clonal growth of a single spore of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus over multiple generations. New Phytol 196(3):853–861. [[Ehinger_et+al_SignificantGeneticPhenotypicChangesArising_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ehinger%2C%20M.O.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Significant%20genetic%20and%20phenotypic%20changes%20arising%20from%20clonal%20growth%20of%20a%20single%20spore%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20over%20multiple%20generations%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ehinger%2C%20M.O.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Significant%20genetic%20and%20phenotypic%20changes%20arising%20from%20clonal%20growth%20of%20a%20single%20spore%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20over%20multiple%20generations%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ehinger%2C%20M.O.%20Croll%2C%20D.%20Koch%2C%20A.M.%20Sanders%2C%20I.R.%20Significant%20genetic%20and%20phenotypic%20changes%20arising%20from%20clonal%20growth%20of%20a%20single%20spore%20of%20an%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20over%20multiple%20generations%202012)

[^16]: Hosny M, Hijri M, Passerieux E, Dulieu H (1999) rDNA units are highly polymorphic in Scutellospora castanea (glomales, zygomycetes). Gene 226(1):61–71. [[Hosny_et+al_RdnaUnitsHighlyPolymorphicScutellospora_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hosny%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Passerieux%2C%20E.%20Dulieu%2C%20H.%20rDNA%20units%20are%20highly%20polymorphic%20in%20Scutellospora%20castanea%20%28glomales%2C%20zygomycetes%29%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hosny%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Passerieux%2C%20E.%20Dulieu%2C%20H.%20rDNA%20units%20are%20highly%20polymorphic%20in%20Scutellospora%20castanea%20%28glomales%2C%20zygomycetes%29%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hosny%2C%20M.%20Hijri%2C%20M.%20Passerieux%2C%20E.%20Dulieu%2C%20H.%20rDNA%20units%20are%20highly%20polymorphic%20in%20Scutellospora%20castanea%20%28glomales%2C%20zygomycetes%29%201999)

[^17]: Parra G, Bradnam K, Korf I (2007) CEGMA: A pipeline to accurately annotate core genes in eukaryotic genomes. Bioinformatics 23(9):1061–1067. [[Parra_Bradnam_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parra%2C%20G.%20Bradnam%202007)

[^18]: Sedzielewska KA, et al. (2011) Estimation of the Glomus intraradices nuclear DNA content. New Phytol 192(4):794–797. [[Sedzielewska_EstimationGlomusIntraradicesNuclearDna_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sedzielewska%2C%20K.A.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20Glomus%20intraradices%20nuclear%20DNA%20content%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sedzielewska%2C%20K.A.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20Glomus%20intraradices%20nuclear%20DNA%20content%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sedzielewska%2C%20K.A.%20Estimation%20of%20the%20Glomus%20intraradices%20nuclear%20DNA%20content%202011)

[^19]: Yu J, et al. (2005) The genomes of Oryza sativa: A history of duplications. PLoS Biol 3(2):e38. [[Yu_GenomesOryzaSativaHistoryDuplications_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Yu%2C%20J.%20The%20genomes%20of%20Oryza%20sativa%3A%20A%20history%20of%20duplications%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Yu%2C%20J.%20The%20genomes%20of%20Oryza%20sativa%3A%20A%20history%20of%20duplications%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Yu%2C%20J.%20The%20genomes%20of%20Oryza%20sativa%3A%20A%20history%20of%20duplications%202005)

[^20]: Spanu PD, et al. (2010) Genome expansion and gene loss in powdery mildew fungi reveal tradeoffs in extreme parasitism. Science 330(6010):1543–1546. [[Spanu_GenomeExpansionGeneLossPowdery_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Spanu%2C%20P.D.%20Genome%20expansion%20and%20gene%20loss%20in%20powdery%20mildew%20fungi%20reveal%20tradeoffs%20in%20extreme%20parasitism%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Spanu%2C%20P.D.%20Genome%20expansion%20and%20gene%20loss%20in%20powdery%20mildew%20fungi%20reveal%20tradeoffs%20in%20extreme%20parasitism%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Spanu%2C%20P.D.%20Genome%20expansion%20and%20gene%20loss%20in%20powdery%20mildew%20fungi%20reveal%20tradeoffs%20in%20extreme%20parasitism%202010)

[^21]: Martin F, et al. (2010) Périgord black truffle genome uncovers evolutionary origins and mechanisms of symbiosis. Nature 464(7291):1033–1038. [[Martin_PérigordBlackTruffleGenomeUncovers_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20P%C3%A9rigord%20black%20truffle%20genome%20uncovers%20evolutionary%20origins%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20symbiosis%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martin%2C%20F.%20P%C3%A9rigord%20black%20truffle%20genome%20uncovers%20evolutionary%20origins%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20symbiosis%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20P%C3%A9rigord%20black%20truffle%20genome%20uncovers%20evolutionary%20origins%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20symbiosis%202010)

[^22]: Lynch M, Conery JS (2000) The evolutionary fate and consequences of duplicate genes. Science 290(5494):1151–1155. [[Lynch_EvolutionaryFateConsequencesDuplicateGenes_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lynch%2C%20M.%20Conery%2C%20J.S.%20The%20evolutionary%20fate%20and%20consequences%20of%20duplicate%20genes%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lynch%2C%20M.%20Conery%2C%20J.S.%20The%20evolutionary%20fate%20and%20consequences%20of%20duplicate%20genes%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lynch%2C%20M.%20Conery%2C%20J.S.%20The%20evolutionary%20fate%20and%20consequences%20of%20duplicate%20genes%202000)

[^23]: Joneson S, Stajich JE, Shiu SH, Rosenblum EB (2011) Genomic transition to pathogenicity in chytrid fungi. PLoS Pathog 7(11):e1002338. [[Joneson_et+al_GenomicTransitionPathogenicityChytridFungi_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Joneson%2C%20S.%20Stajich%2C%20J.E.%20Shiu%2C%20S.H.%20Rosenblum%2C%20E.B.%20Genomic%20transition%20to%20pathogenicity%20in%20chytrid%20fungi%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Joneson%2C%20S.%20Stajich%2C%20J.E.%20Shiu%2C%20S.H.%20Rosenblum%2C%20E.B.%20Genomic%20transition%20to%20pathogenicity%20in%20chytrid%20fungi%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Joneson%2C%20S.%20Stajich%2C%20J.E.%20Shiu%2C%20S.H.%20Rosenblum%2C%20E.B.%20Genomic%20transition%20to%20pathogenicity%20in%20chytrid%20fungi%202011)

[^24]: Martin F, et al. (2008) The genome of Laccaria bicolor provides insights into mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 452(7183):88–92. [[Martin_GenomeLaccariaBicolorProvidesInsights_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20The%20genome%20of%20Laccaria%20bicolor%20provides%20insights%20into%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Martin%2C%20F.%20The%20genome%20of%20Laccaria%20bicolor%20provides%20insights%20into%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Martin%2C%20F.%20The%20genome%20of%20Laccaria%20bicolor%20provides%20insights%20into%20mycorrhizal%20symbiosis%202008)

[^25]: Maillet F, et al. (2011) Fungal lipochitooligosaccharide symbiotic signals in arbuscular mycorrhiza. Nature 469(7328):58–63. [[Maillet_FungalLipochitooligosaccharideSymbioticSignalsArbuscular_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maillet%2C%20F.%20Fungal%20lipochitooligosaccharide%20symbiotic%20signals%20in%20arbuscular%20mycorrhiza%202011)

[^26]: Judelson HS (2012) Dynamics and innovations within oomycete genomes: Insights into biology, pathology, and evolution. Eukaryot Cell 11(11):1304–1312. [[Judelson_DynamicsInnovationsWithinOomyceteGenomes_2012]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Judelson%2C%20H.S.%20Dynamics%20and%20innovations%20within%20oomycete%20genomes%3A%20Insights%20into%20biology%2C%20pathology%2C%20and%20evolution%202012) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Judelson%2C%20H.S.%20Dynamics%20and%20innovations%20within%20oomycete%20genomes%3A%20Insights%20into%20biology%2C%20pathology%2C%20and%20evolution%202012) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Judelson%2C%20H.S.%20Dynamics%20and%20innovations%20within%20oomycete%20genomes%3A%20Insights%20into%20biology%2C%20pathology%2C%20and%20evolution%202012)

[^27]: Helber N, et al. (2011) A versatile monosaccharide transporter that operates in the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus sp is crucial for the symbiotic relationship with plants. Plant Cell 23(10):3812–3823. [[Helber_VersatileMonosaccharideTransporterThatOperates_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Helber%2C%20N.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Helber%2C%20N.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Helber%2C%20N.%20A%20versatile%20monosaccharide%20transporter%20that%20operates%20in%20the%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungus%20Glomus%20sp%20is%20crucial%20for%20the%20symbiotic%20relationship%20with%20plants%202011)

[^28]: Leigh J, Hodge A, Fitter AH (2009) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plant from organic material. New Phytol 181(1):199–207. [[Leigh_et+al_ArbuscularMycorrhizalFungiTransferSubstantial_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Leigh%2C%20J.%20Hodge%2C%20A.%20Fitter%2C%20A.H.%20Arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%20can%20transfer%20substantial%20amounts%20of%20nitrogen%20to%20their%20host%20plant%20from%20organic%20material%202009)

[^29]: Kloppholz S, Kuhn H, Requena N (2011) A secreted fungal effector of Glomus intraradices promotes symbiotic biotrophy. Curr Biol 21(14):1204–1209. [[Kloppholz_et+al_SecretedFungalEffectorGlomusIntraradices_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kloppholz%2C%20S.%20Kuhn%2C%20H.%20Requena%2C%20N.%20A%20secreted%20fungal%20effector%20of%20Glomus%20intraradices%20promotes%20symbiotic%20biotrophy%202011)

[^30]: Riley R, Corradi N (2013) Searching for clues of sexual reproduction in the genomes of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Fungal Ecol 6:44–49. [[Riley_SearchingCluesSexualReproductionGenomes_2013]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Riley%2C%20R.%20Corradi%2C%20N.%20Searching%20for%20clues%20of%20sexual%20reproduction%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202013) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riley%2C%20R.%20Corradi%2C%20N.%20Searching%20for%20clues%20of%20sexual%20reproduction%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202013) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Riley%2C%20R.%20Corradi%2C%20N.%20Searching%20for%20clues%20of%20sexual%20reproduction%20in%20the%20genomes%20of%20arbuscular%20mycorrhizal%20fungi%202013)

[^31]: Riley R, et al. (2013) Extreme diversification of the mating type high-mobility group (MATA-HMG) gene family in a plant-associated arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus. New Phytol, 10.1111/nph.12462. [[Riley_ExtremeDiversificationMatingTypeHighmobility_2013]] [OA](https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.12462)  [Scite](https://scite.ai/reports/10.1111/nph.12462)

[^32]: Idnurm A, Walton FJ, Floyd A, Heitman J (2008) Identification of the sex genes in an early diverged fungus. Nature 451(7175):193–196. [[Idnurm_et+al_IdentificationGenesEarlyDivergedFungus_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Idnurm%2C%20A.%20Walton%2C%20F.J.%20Floyd%2C%20A.%20Heitman%2C%20J.%20Identification%20of%20the%20sex%20genes%20in%20an%20early%20diverged%20fungus%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Idnurm%2C%20A.%20Walton%2C%20F.J.%20Floyd%2C%20A.%20Heitman%2C%20J.%20Identification%20of%20the%20sex%20genes%20in%20an%20early%20diverged%20fungus%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Idnurm%2C%20A.%20Walton%2C%20F.J.%20Floyd%2C%20A.%20Heitman%2C%20J.%20Identification%20of%20the%20sex%20genes%20in%20an%20early%20diverged%20fungus%202008)

[^10]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^11]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^12]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^13]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^14]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^15]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^16]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^17]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^19]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^20]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

[^21]: Shawna Rowe 13/4/2018 19:18 [[Rowe__0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Shawna%20Rowe%201342018%201918) 

