[[Vavra_et+al_BiodiversityExoticPlantSpeciesHerbivory_2007]]

# [Biodiversity, exotic plant species, and herbivory: The good, the bad, and the ungulate](https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2007.03.051)

## [[Marty Vavra]]; [[Catherine G. Parks]]; [[Michael J. Wisdom]]

### 2007

## Abstract
==Invasion of natural ecosystems by exotic plant species is a major threat to biodiversity==. Disturbance to native plant communities, whether natural or management induced, is ==a primary factor contributing to successful invasion by exotic plant species==. Herbivory by both wild and domestic ungulates exerts considerable impact on structure and composition of native plant communities. Intensive herbivory by ungulates can enhance exotic plant invasion, establishment, and spread for three reasons: (1) ==many exotic plants are adapted to ground disturbances== ==such as those caused by ungulate feeding==, trampling, and movements; (2) ==many exotic plants are adapted for easy transport from one area== to another by ungulates via endozoochory and epizoochory; (3) many exotic plants are not palatable or are of low palatability to ungulates, and consequently, ==their survival is favored as ungulates reduce== or eliminate palatable, native plants. Ungulate herbivory is a chronic, landscape-scale disturbance capable of influencing plant communities as much as episodic events such as fire. Consequently, ungulate herbivory has the potential to facilitate the invasion and establishment of exotic plants in the interior Pacific Northwest where ungulates occupy nearly every ecosystem. Moreover, ==ungulate herbivory has intensified in many ecosystems==, owing to the addition of domestic ungulates with that of existing, wild ungulates, coupled with the reduction or elimination of migratory movements and predators that previously regulated wild ungulate populations and influenced their distributions. Despite the observational evidence for ungulate herbivory as a strong facilitator of exotic plant invasion and establishment, current knowledge of cause– ==effect relations is severely limited by a lack of manipulative experiments==. Most studies have been observational, unreplicated, and lack the experimental controls needed to eliminate or account for confounding sources of variation. ==Heightened attention to conservation of biodiversity will increase the importance of managing ungulates in balance== with the plant communities that support them. Published by Elsevier B.V.

## Key concepts
#herbivory; #grazing; #ungulates; #disturbance; #exotic_plants; #united_states; #ecology; #competition; #franklin; #dynamics; #bromus; #biological_diversity; #pinus_ponderosa

## Quote
> We describe the potential role of ungulate herbivory as a threat to biodiversity through its influence on the establishment and spread of nonnative invasive plants in interior Pacific Northwest forest ecosystems


## Key points
- Invasion of natural ecosystems by exotic plant species is recognized as a major threat to biodiversity
- One subtle aspect of ungulate herbivory is its potential role in the spread and establishment of non-native invasive plants
- We describe the potential role of ungulate herbivory as a threat to biodiversity through its influence on the establishment and spread of nonnative invasive plants in interior Pacific Northwest forest ecosystems
- The distributions of elk (Cervus elaphus) were significantly altered ([^Fortin_et+al_2005_a]), resulting in substantially less herbivory by elk in riparian areas, which allowed widespread recruitment of cottonwood along stream courses for the first time in over 50 years ([^Beschta_2005_a]). This case example clearly demonstrates the role of predators in mediating the effects of wild ungulate herbivory, and in turn, mediating the potential facilitation of exotic plant invasions
- Associated with herbivory effects is the movement of animals that results in trampling effects and solifluction
- While landscape and broad scale ungulate herbivory information is lacking to inform managers, more data on how specific ungulates affect particular ecosystems is needed at all scales

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Invasion of natural ecosystems by exotic plant species is recognized as a major threat to biodiversity.
The coniferdominated forest communities of the interior Pacific Northwest differ in their relative susceptibility to exotic plant invasion with respect to landscape ecology and land uses ([^Parks_et+al_2005_a]).
One subtle aspect of ungulate herbivory is its potential role in the spread and establishment of non-native invasive plants.
M. Vavra et al / Forest Ecology and Management 246 (2007) 66–72 episodic disturbances such as wildfire and how together they influence exotic plant invasions, is an increasingly urgent issue for land managers in the interior Pacific Northwest where ungulates occupy most wildland landscapes.
The authors describe the potential role of ungulate herbivory as a threat to biodiversity through its influence on the establishment and spread of nonnative invasive plants in interior Pacific Northwest forest ecosystems.
The authors' paper is not meant to be an extensive review of the literature on herbivory but meant to point out the potential role of herbivory in facilitating the invasion of exotic plants

### Herbivory
[^Huntly_1991_a]) identified the impact of herbivores on plant regeneration as a powerful, yet little studied influence on vegetation diversity.
[^Parker_et+al_2006_a]</a>), did not separate results for ungulates from other herbivores, and the strength of native versus non-native ungulate effects on this pattern was not clear
Both intensity and timing of herbivory can greatly affect plant productivity and vigor ([^Holechek_et+al_1998_a]</a></a></a>).
The distributions of elk (Cervus elaphus) were significantly altered ([^Fortin_et+al_2005_a]), resulting in substantially less herbivory by elk in riparian areas, which allowed widespread recruitment of cottonwood along stream courses for the first time in over 50 years ([^Beschta_2005_a])
This case example clearly demonstrates the role of predators in mediating the effects of wild ungulate herbivory, and in turn, mediating the potential facilitation of exotic plant invasions.
Modified soil properties and nutrient availability can favor exotic invasive species with growth requirements better matched to such changed conditions than native species ([^Greenberg_et+al_1997_a]; [^Harris_1967_a]; [^Hobbs_1989_a])

### Prescribed livestock grazing
Associated with herbivory effects is the movement of animals that results in trampling effects and solifluction.
Some studies show that increased nitrogen availability through the deposition of animal dung and urine encourages community dominance by invasive plant species ([^Harris_1967_a]; [^Hobbs_1989_a]).
There were no differences between the exotic and native species at any level of nitrogen availability in root:shoot ratios, total biomass, or percent leaf tissue nitrogen, but the native species as a group gained more height than the exotics at Numerous studies have tested the utility of ‘‘prescribed livestock grazing,’’ with sheep and goats, to reduce biomass and composition of invasive plants.
Most studies that used livestock to counter invasive plants have not been conducted in forested environments but rather in grassland settings using small enclosures

### Endozoochory and epizoochory
Animal-mediated spread of invasive plants is a common, worldwide phenomenon ([^Schiffman_1997_a]</a>).
[^Malo_et+al_2000_a]) concluded that the effect of seed input to the seed bank from ungulate transport may be low at large and medium-sized spatial scales, but very important at small scales and for colonization processes.
It is not certain how important endozoochory is in initiating or increasing invasive plant infestations in natural systems ([^Gill_2001_a]).
With human-caused transcontinental migration of plant species to exotic habitats these dispersal mechanisms are considered potentially detrimental

### Findings
[^Packer_1963_a]) concluded that on an elk winter range the amount of eroded soil increased rapidly as the ground cover density decreased below 70% and the bulk density of the soil increased above 1.04 g/cm

### Knowledge gaps and research needs
Current knowledge of ungulate herbivory as a contributor to the loss of biodiversity, from exotic plant invasions, is severely limited by a lack of manipulative experiments.
The authors are unaware of any herbivory studies designed to make inferences across large landscapes typically of interest to resource managers.
Studies like those of [^Bakker_et+al_2006_a]), using experimental controls and treatments, as applied across a broad spectrum of ecosystems, are needed to strengthen the geographic inference space regarding herbivory effects.
While landscape and broad scale ungulate herbivory information is lacking to inform managers, more data on how specific ungulates affect particular ecosystems is needed at all scales.
The regulated harvest of wild ungulates in hunting seasons is a traditional wildlife management tool to control future ungulate population sizes, but a population-based approach that does not consider feedbacks between ungulate herbivory and vegetation, or how different densities of wild ungulates influence specific ecosystems may not be an effective tool to protect biological diversity.
The coexistence of wild ungulates with large populations of livestock complicates the issue and requires methodology to consider the effects of all herbivores on the ecosystem, rather than those of just one species at a time ([^Weisberg_et+al_2002_a])


## Study subjects

### 63 manipulative studies
- [^Sheley_et+al_1997_a]) reported that plots clipped to simulate intensive livestock grazing enhanced the establishment of diffuse knapweed (Centaurea diffusa Lam) but moderate defoliation had no effect. ==By contrast, [^Parker_et+al_2006_a]) summarized results from 63 manipulative studies of exotic plant invasions as affected by a wide spectrum of ungulate and non-ungulate herbivores==. These authors concluded that herbivory by non-native herbivores facilitated exotic plant invasions, while feeding by native herbivores facilitated resistance to such invasions

### 85 vascular plant species
- Whereas endozoochory may be important at small scales, it is likely that epizoic transport is an important mode of introduction and spread of invasive plants at several landscape scales. ==The fleece of a single sheep can carry as many as 8500 seeds of 85 vascular plant species ([^Fischer_et+al_1996_a]) and therefore, livestock can be effective long-distance dispersers of invasive plant seeds in rangelands (De Clerck-Floate, 1997; [^Olson_et+al_1997_a])==. Endozoochory and epizoochory are evolutionary adaptations that facilitated the dispersal of plant species as well as reseeding areas of intense herbivory ([^Howe_1982_a])

## Findings
- [^Packer_1963_a]) concluded that on an elk winter range the amount of eroded soil increased rapidly as the ground cover density decreased below 70% and the bulk density of the soil increased above 1.04 g/cm3

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- Northwest landscapes may be more susceptible to invasion because of a short history of grazing and limiting precipitation ([^Milchunas_1993_a]). [^Bakker_et+al_2006_a]) demonstrated that large herbivores caused a decline in plant species richness in grassland communities of lower productivity and precipitation, but increased richness in grasslands of higher productivity and precipitation. ==These results for grasslands are congruent with the idea that herbivory effects on plant species richness in forests==, and in turn, on exotic plant establishment in forests, may vary strongly with site productivity

## Future work
- Future research synthesis may benefit from a simple division of ungulate effects on biodiversity that distinguishes ‘‘grazers’’, i.e., ungulates that feed predominately on grass and herbage such as cattle or elk, and ‘‘browsers’’, i.e., ungulates that primarily consume tender shoots and stems of shrubs and trees as food, such as deer and goats, or based on body size (used as an index to grazers versus browsers), such as done by [^Bakker_et+al_2006_a]). It would be valuable to predict which plants are likely to invade interior Pacific Northwest forests under different ungulate grazing regimes. High foraging pressure by grazers may facilitate invasion by non-native woody shrubs whereas high foraging pressure from ungulate browsers may alter long-term forest gap dynamics and perhaps encourage non-native tree species that are better adapted to the changed conditions.


## References
[^Aber_et+al_2000_a]: Aber, J., Christensen, N., Fernanadez, I., Franklin, J., Hidinger, L., Hunter, M., MacMahon, J., Mladenfoff, D., Pastor, J., Perry, D., Slangen, R., van Miegroet, H., 2000. Applying ecological principles to management of the U.S. National Forests. Issues Ecol. 6, 1–20. [[Aber_et+al_ApplyingEcologicalPrinciplesManagementU_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Aber%2C%20J.%20Christensen%2C%20N.%20Fernanadez%2C%20I.%20Franklin%2C%20J.%20Applying%20ecological%20principles%20to%20management%20of%20the%20U%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Aber%2C%20J.%20Christensen%2C%20N.%20Fernanadez%2C%20I.%20Franklin%2C%20J.%20Applying%20ecological%20principles%20to%20management%20of%20the%20U%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Aber%2C%20J.%20Christensen%2C%20N.%20Fernanadez%2C%20I.%20Franklin%2C%20J.%20Applying%20ecological%20principles%20to%20management%20of%20the%20U%202000)

[^Augustine_1998_a]: Augustine, D.J., McNaughton, S.J., 1998. Ungulate effects on the functional species composition of plant communities: herbivore selectivity and plant tolerance. J. Wildl. Manage. 62, 1165–1183. [[Augustine_UngulateEffectsFunctionalSpeciesComposition_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Augustine%2C%20D.J.%20McNaughton%2C%20S.J.%20Ungulate%20effects%20on%20the%20functional%20species%20composition%20of%20plant%20communities%3A%20herbivore%20selectivity%20and%20plant%20tolerance%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Augustine%2C%20D.J.%20McNaughton%2C%20S.J.%20Ungulate%20effects%20on%20the%20functional%20species%20composition%20of%20plant%20communities%3A%20herbivore%20selectivity%20and%20plant%20tolerance%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Augustine%2C%20D.J.%20McNaughton%2C%20S.J.%20Ungulate%20effects%20on%20the%20functional%20species%20composition%20of%20plant%20communities%3A%20herbivore%20selectivity%20and%20plant%20tolerance%201998)

[^Bakker_et+al_2006_a]: Bakker, E.S., Ritchie, M.E., Olff, H., Milchunas, D.G., Knops, J.H.M., 2006. Herbivore impact on grassland plant diversity depends on habitat productivity and herbivore size. Ecol. Lett. 9, 780–788. [[Bakker_et+al_HerbivoreImpactGrasslandPlantDiversity_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bakker%2C%20E.S.%20Ritchie%2C%20M.E.%20Olff%2C%20H.%20Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Herbivore%20impact%20on%20grassland%20plant%20diversity%20depends%20on%20habitat%20productivity%20and%20herbivore%20size%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bakker%2C%20E.S.%20Ritchie%2C%20M.E.%20Olff%2C%20H.%20Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Herbivore%20impact%20on%20grassland%20plant%20diversity%20depends%20on%20habitat%20productivity%20and%20herbivore%20size%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bakker%2C%20E.S.%20Ritchie%2C%20M.E.%20Olff%2C%20H.%20Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Herbivore%20impact%20on%20grassland%20plant%20diversity%20depends%20on%20habitat%20productivity%20and%20herbivore%20size%202006)

[^Belsky_2000_a]: Belsky, A.J., Gelbard, J.L., 2000. Livestock Grazing and Weed Invasions in the Arid West. Oregon Natural Desert Association, Bend, OR. [[Belsky_LivestockGrazingWeedInvasionsArid_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Belsky%2C%20A.J.%20Gelbard%2C%20J.L.%20Livestock%20Grazing%20and%20Weed%20Invasions%20in%20the%20Arid%20West%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Belsky%2C%20A.J.%20Gelbard%2C%20J.L.%20Livestock%20Grazing%20and%20Weed%20Invasions%20in%20the%20Arid%20West%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Belsky%2C%20A.J.%20Gelbard%2C%20J.L.%20Livestock%20Grazing%20and%20Weed%20Invasions%20in%20the%20Arid%20West%202000)

[^Beschta_2005_a]: Beschta, R.L., 2005. Reduced cottonwood recruitment following extirpation of wolves in Yellowstone’s northern range. Ecology 86, 391–403. [[Beschta_ReducedCottonwoodRecruitmentFollowingExtirpation_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Beschta%2C%20R.L.%20Reduced%20cottonwood%20recruitment%20following%20extirpation%20of%20wolves%20in%20Yellowstone%E2%80%99s%20northern%20range%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Beschta%2C%20R.L.%20Reduced%20cottonwood%20recruitment%20following%20extirpation%20of%20wolves%20in%20Yellowstone%E2%80%99s%20northern%20range%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Beschta%2C%20R.L.%20Reduced%20cottonwood%20recruitment%20following%20extirpation%20of%20wolves%20in%20Yellowstone%E2%80%99s%20northern%20range%202005)

[^Brown_1995_a]: Brown, J.H., McDonald, W., 1995. Livestock grazing and conservation on southwestern rangelands. Conserv. Biol. 9, 1644–1647. [[Brown_LivestockGrazingConservationSouthwesternRangelands_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Brown%2C%20J.H.%20McDonald%2C%20W.%20Livestock%20grazing%20and%20conservation%20on%20southwestern%20rangelands%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Brown%2C%20J.H.%20McDonald%2C%20W.%20Livestock%20grazing%20and%20conservation%20on%20southwestern%20rangelands%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Brown%2C%20J.H.%20McDonald%2C%20W.%20Livestock%20grazing%20and%20conservation%20on%20southwestern%20rangelands%201995)

[^Carpenter_2005_a]: Carpenter, D., Cappuccino, N., 2005. [[Carpenter__2005]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carpenter%20D%20Cappuccino%20N%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Carpenter%20D%20Cappuccino%20N%202005) 

[^Claassen_1998_a]: Claassen, V.P., Marler, M., 1998. Annual and perennial grass growth on nitrogen-depleted decomposed granite. Restor. Ecol. 6, 175–180. [[Claassen_AnnualPerennialGrassGrowthNitrogendepleted_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Claassen%2C%20V.P.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Annual%20and%20perennial%20grass%20growth%20on%20nitrogen-depleted%20decomposed%20granite%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Claassen%2C%20V.P.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Annual%20and%20perennial%20grass%20growth%20on%20nitrogen-depleted%20decomposed%20granite%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Claassen%2C%20V.P.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Annual%20and%20perennial%20grass%20growth%20on%20nitrogen-depleted%20decomposed%20granite%201998)

[^Cote_et+al_2004_a]: Cote, S.D., Rooney, T.P., Tremblay, J.P., Dussault, C., Waller, D.M., 2004. Ecological impacts of deer overabundance. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 35, 113–147. [[Cote_et+al_EcologicalImpactsDeerOverabundance_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cote%2C%20S.D.%20Rooney%2C%20T.P.%20Tremblay%2C%20J.P.%20Dussault%2C%20C.%20Ecological%20impacts%20of%20deer%20overabundance%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cote%2C%20S.D.%20Rooney%2C%20T.P.%20Tremblay%2C%20J.P.%20Dussault%2C%20C.%20Ecological%20impacts%20of%20deer%20overabundance%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cote%2C%20S.D.%20Rooney%2C%20T.P.%20Tremblay%2C%20J.P.%20Dussault%2C%20C.%20Ecological%20impacts%20of%20deer%20overabundance%202004)

[^de_Clerck_1997_a]: De Clerck-Floate, R., 1997. Cattle as dispersers of hound’s-tongue on rangeland in southeastern British Columbia. J. Range Manage. 50, 239–243. [[de_Clerck_CattleDispersersHoundtongueRangelandSoutheastern_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=De%20Clerck-Floate%2C%20R.%20Cattle%20as%20dispersers%20of%20hound%E2%80%99s-tongue%20on%20rangeland%20in%20southeastern%20British%20Columbia%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=De%20Clerck-Floate%2C%20R.%20Cattle%20as%20dispersers%20of%20hound%E2%80%99s-tongue%20on%20rangeland%20in%20southeastern%20British%20Columbia%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=De%20Clerck-Floate%2C%20R.%20Cattle%20as%20dispersers%20of%20hound%E2%80%99s-tongue%20on%20rangeland%20in%20southeastern%20British%20Columbia%201997)

[^Fischer_et+al_1996_a]: Fischer, S.F., Poschlod, P., Beinlich, B., 1996. Experimental studies on the dispersal of plants and animals on sheep in calcareous grasslands. J. Appl. Ecol. 33, 1206–1222. [[Fischer_et+al_ExperimentalStudiesDispersalPlantsAnimals_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fischer%2C%20S.F.%20Poschlod%2C%20P.%20Beinlich%2C%20B.%20Experimental%20studies%20on%20the%20dispersal%20of%20plants%20and%20animals%20on%20sheep%20in%20calcareous%20grasslands%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fischer%2C%20S.F.%20Poschlod%2C%20P.%20Beinlich%2C%20B.%20Experimental%20studies%20on%20the%20dispersal%20of%20plants%20and%20animals%20on%20sheep%20in%20calcareous%20grasslands%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fischer%2C%20S.F.%20Poschlod%2C%20P.%20Beinlich%2C%20B.%20Experimental%20studies%20on%20the%20dispersal%20of%20plants%20and%20animals%20on%20sheep%20in%20calcareous%20grasslands%201996)

[^Fleischner_1994_a]: Fleischner, T.L., 1994. Ecological costs of livestock grazing in western North America. Conserv. Biol. 8, 629–644. [[Fleischner_EcologicalCostsLivestockGrazingWestern_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fleischner%2C%20T.L.%20Ecological%20costs%20of%20livestock%20grazing%20in%20western%20North%20America%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fleischner%2C%20T.L.%20Ecological%20costs%20of%20livestock%20grazing%20in%20western%20North%20America%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fleischner%2C%20T.L.%20Ecological%20costs%20of%20livestock%20grazing%20in%20western%20North%20America%201994)

[^Fortin_et+al_2005_a]: Fortin, D., Beyer, H.L., Boyce, M.S., Smith, D.W., Duchesne, T., Mao, J.S., 2005. Wolves influence elk movements: behavior shapes a trophic cascade in Yellowstone National Park. Ecology 86, 1320–1330. [[Fortin_et+al_WolvesInfluenceMovementsBehaviorShapes_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fortin%2C%20D.%20Beyer%2C%20H.L.%20Boyce%2C%20M.S.%20Smith%2C%20D.W.%20Wolves%20influence%20elk%20movements%3A%20behavior%20shapes%20a%20trophic%20cascade%20in%20Yellowstone%20National%20Park%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fortin%2C%20D.%20Beyer%2C%20H.L.%20Boyce%2C%20M.S.%20Smith%2C%20D.W.%20Wolves%20influence%20elk%20movements%3A%20behavior%20shapes%20a%20trophic%20cascade%20in%20Yellowstone%20National%20Park%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fortin%2C%20D.%20Beyer%2C%20H.L.%20Boyce%2C%20M.S.%20Smith%2C%20D.W.%20Wolves%20influence%20elk%20movements%3A%20behavior%20shapes%20a%20trophic%20cascade%20in%20Yellowstone%20National%20Park%202005)

[^Franklin_1973_a]: Franklin, J.F., Dyrness, C.T., 1973. Natural Vegetation of Oregon and Washington. General Technical Report GTR-PNW-8. US Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Forest and Range Experiment Station, 417 pp. [[Franklin_NaturalVegetationOregonWashingtonGeneral_1973]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Franklin%2C%20J.F.%20Dyrness%2C%20C.T.%20Natural%20Vegetation%20of%20Oregon%20and%20Washington.%20General%20Technical%20Report%20GTR-PNW-8.%20US%20Department%20of%20Agriculture%2C%20Forest%20Service%2C%20Pacific%20Northwest%20Forest%20and%20Range%201973) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Franklin%2C%20J.F.%20Dyrness%2C%20C.T.%20Natural%20Vegetation%20of%20Oregon%20and%20Washington.%20General%20Technical%20Report%20GTR-PNW-8.%20US%20Department%20of%20Agriculture%2C%20Forest%20Service%2C%20Pacific%20Northwest%20Forest%20and%20Range%201973) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Franklin%2C%20J.F.%20Dyrness%2C%20C.T.%20Natural%20Vegetation%20of%20Oregon%20and%20Washington.%20General%20Technical%20Report%20GTR-PNW-8.%20US%20Department%20of%20Agriculture%2C%20Forest%20Service%2C%20Pacific%20Northwest%20Forest%20and%20Range%201973)

[^Gill_2001_a]: Gill, R.M.A., Beardall, V., 2001. The impact of deer on woodlands: the effects of browsing and seed dispersal on vegetation structure and composition. Forestry 74, 210–218. [[Gill_ImpactDeerWoodlandsEffectsBrowsing_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gill%2C%20R.M.A.%20Beardall%2C%20V.%20The%20impact%20of%20deer%20on%20woodlands%3A%20the%20effects%20of%20browsing%20and%20seed%20dispersal%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20composition%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gill%2C%20R.M.A.%20Beardall%2C%20V.%20The%20impact%20of%20deer%20on%20woodlands%3A%20the%20effects%20of%20browsing%20and%20seed%20dispersal%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20composition%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gill%2C%20R.M.A.%20Beardall%2C%20V.%20The%20impact%20of%20deer%20on%20woodlands%3A%20the%20effects%20of%20browsing%20and%20seed%20dispersal%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20composition%202001)

[^Greenberg_et+al_1997_a]: Greenberg, C.H., Crownover, S.H., Gordon, D.R., 1997. Roadside soils: a corridor for invasion of xeric scrub by nonindigenous plants. Nat. Areas J. 17, 99–109. [[Greenberg_et+al_RoadsideSoilsCorridorInvasionXeric_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Greenberg%2C%20C.H.%20Crownover%2C%20S.H.%20Gordon%2C%20D.R.%20Roadside%20soils%3A%20a%20corridor%20for%20invasion%20of%20xeric%20scrub%20by%20nonindigenous%20plants%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Greenberg%2C%20C.H.%20Crownover%2C%20S.H.%20Gordon%2C%20D.R.%20Roadside%20soils%3A%20a%20corridor%20for%20invasion%20of%20xeric%20scrub%20by%20nonindigenous%20plants%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Greenberg%2C%20C.H.%20Crownover%2C%20S.H.%20Gordon%2C%20D.R.%20Roadside%20soils%3A%20a%20corridor%20for%20invasion%20of%20xeric%20scrub%20by%20nonindigenous%20plants%201997)

[^Hanley_1980_a]: Hanley, T.A., Tabor, R.D., 1980. Selective plant species inhibition by elk and deer in three conifer communities in western Washington. Forest Sci. 26, 97–107. [[Hanley_SelectivePlantSpeciesInhibitionDeer_1980]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hanley%2C%20T.A.%20Tabor%2C%20R.D.%20Selective%20plant%20species%20inhibition%20by%20elk%20and%20deer%20in%20three%20conifer%20communities%20in%20western%20Washington%201980) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hanley%2C%20T.A.%20Tabor%2C%20R.D.%20Selective%20plant%20species%20inhibition%20by%20elk%20and%20deer%20in%20three%20conifer%20communities%20in%20western%20Washington%201980) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hanley%2C%20T.A.%20Tabor%2C%20R.D.%20Selective%20plant%20species%20inhibition%20by%20elk%20and%20deer%20in%20three%20conifer%20communities%20in%20western%20Washington%201980)

[^Harris_1967_a]: Harris, G.A., 1967. Some competitive relationships between Agropyron spicatum and Bromus tectorum. Ecol. Monogr. 37, 90–111. [[Harris_SomeCompetitiveRelationshipsBetweenAgropyron_1967]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Harris%2C%20G.A.%20Some%20competitive%20relationships%20between%20Agropyron%20spicatum%20and%20Bromus%20tectorum%201967) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Harris%2C%20G.A.%20Some%20competitive%20relationships%20between%20Agropyron%20spicatum%20and%20Bromus%20tectorum%201967) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Harris%2C%20G.A.%20Some%20competitive%20relationships%20between%20Agropyron%20spicatum%20and%20Bromus%20tectorum%201967)

[^Hobbs_1989_a]: Hobbs, R.J., 1989. The nature and effects of disturbance relative to invasions. In: Drake, J.A., Mooney, H.A., di Castri, F.,Groves, R.H., Kruger, F.J.,Rejmanek, M., Williamson, M. (Eds.), Biological Invasions. A Global Perspective. SCOPE 37. John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, Great Britain, pp. 389–405. [[Hobbs_NatureEffectsDisturbanceRelativeInvasions_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hobbs%2C%20R.J.%20The%20nature%20and%20effects%20of%20disturbance%20relative%20to%20invasions%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hobbs%2C%20R.J.%20The%20nature%20and%20effects%20of%20disturbance%20relative%20to%20invasions%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hobbs%2C%20R.J.%20The%20nature%20and%20effects%20of%20disturbance%20relative%20to%20invasions%201989)

[^Hobbs_1996_a]: Hobbs, N.T., 1996. Modification of ecosystems by ungulates. J. Wildl. Manage. 60, 695–713. [[Hobbs_ModificationEcosystemsUngulates_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Modification%20of%20ecosystems%20by%20ungulates%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Modification%20of%20ecosystems%20by%20ungulates%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Modification%20of%20ecosystems%20by%20ungulates%201996)

[^Holechek_et+al_1998_a]: Holechek, J.L., Pieper, R.D., Herbel, C.H., 1998. Range Management Principles and Practices. Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey. [[Holechek_et+al_RangeManagementPrinciplesPractices_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Holechek%2C%20J.L.%20Pieper%2C%20R.D.%20Herbel%2C%20C.H.%20Range%20Management%20Principles%20and%20Practices%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Holechek%2C%20J.L.%20Pieper%2C%20R.D.%20Herbel%2C%20C.H.%20Range%20Management%20Principles%20and%20Practices%201998) 

[^Howe_1982_a]: Howe, H.F., Smallwood, J., 1982. Ecology of seed dispersal. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 13, 201–228. [[Howe_EcologySeedDispersal_1982]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Howe%2C%20H.F.%20Smallwood%2C%20J.%20Ecology%20of%20seed%20dispersal%201982) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Howe%2C%20H.F.%20Smallwood%2C%20J.%20Ecology%20of%20seed%20dispersal%201982) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Howe%2C%20H.F.%20Smallwood%2C%20J.%20Ecology%20of%20seed%20dispersal%201982)

[^Horsley_et+al_2003_a]: Horsley, B.H., Stout, S.L., DeCalesta, D.S., 2003. White-tailed deer impact on the vegetation dynamics of a northern hardwood forest. Ecol. Appl. 13, 98– 118. [[Horsley_et+al_WhitetailedDeerImpactVegetationDynamics_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Horsley%2C%20B.H.%20Stout%2C%20S.L.%20DeCalesta%2C%20D.S.%20White-tailed%20deer%20impact%20on%20the%20vegetation%20dynamics%20of%20a%20northern%20hardwood%20forest%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Horsley%2C%20B.H.%20Stout%2C%20S.L.%20DeCalesta%2C%20D.S.%20White-tailed%20deer%20impact%20on%20the%20vegetation%20dynamics%20of%20a%20northern%20hardwood%20forest%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Horsley%2C%20B.H.%20Stout%2C%20S.L.%20DeCalesta%2C%20D.S.%20White-tailed%20deer%20impact%20on%20the%20vegetation%20dynamics%20of%20a%20northern%20hardwood%20forest%202003)

[^Huntly_1991_a]: Huntly, N., 1991. Herbivores and the dynamics of communities and ecosystems. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 22, 477–503. [[Huntly_HerbivoresDynamicsCommunitiesEcosystems_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Huntly%2C%20N.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20dynamics%20of%20communities%20and%20ecosystems%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Huntly%2C%20N.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20dynamics%20of%20communities%20and%20ecosystems%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Huntly%2C%20N.%20Herbivores%20and%20the%20dynamics%20of%20communities%20and%20ecosystems%201991)

[^Keane_2002_a]: Keane, R.M., Crawley, M.J., 2002. Exotic plant invasions and the enemy release hypothesis. Trends Ecol. Evol. 17, 164–170. [[Keane_ExoticPlantInvasionsEnemyRelease_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Keane%2C%20R.M.%20Crawley%2C%20M.J.%20Exotic%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20enemy%20release%20hypothesis%202002)

[^Kelsey_1987_a]: Kelsey, R.G., Locken, L.J., 1987. Phytotoxic properties of cnicin, a sesquititerpene lactone from Centaurea maculosa (spotted knapweed). J. Chem. Ecol. 13, 19–33. [[Kelsey_PhytotoxicPropertiesCnicinSesquititerpeneLactone_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kelsey%2C%20R.G.%20Locken%2C%20L.J.%20Phytotoxic%20properties%20of%20cnicin%2C%20a%20sesquititerpene%20lactone%20from%20Centaurea%20maculosa%20%28spotted%20knapweed%29%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kelsey%2C%20R.G.%20Locken%2C%20L.J.%20Phytotoxic%20properties%20of%20cnicin%2C%20a%20sesquititerpene%20lactone%20from%20Centaurea%20maculosa%20%28spotted%20knapweed%29%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kelsey%2C%20R.G.%20Locken%2C%20L.J.%20Phytotoxic%20properties%20of%20cnicin%2C%20a%20sesquititerpene%20lactone%20from%20Centaurea%20maculosa%20%28spotted%20knapweed%29%201987)

[^Kie_2001_a]: Kie, J.G., Lehmkuhl, J.F., 2001. Herbivory by wild and domestic ungulates in the Intermountain West. Northwest Sci. 75, 55–61. [[Kie_HerbivoryWildDomesticUngulatesIntermountain_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kie%2C%20J.G.%20Lehmkuhl%2C%20J.F.%20Herbivory%20by%20wild%20and%20domestic%20ungulates%20in%20the%20Intermountain%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kie%2C%20J.G.%20Lehmkuhl%2C%20J.F.%20Herbivory%20by%20wild%20and%20domestic%20ungulates%20in%20the%20Intermountain%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kie%2C%20J.G.%20Lehmkuhl%2C%20J.F.%20Herbivory%20by%20wild%20and%20domestic%20ungulates%20in%20the%20Intermountain%202001)

[^Kimball_2003_a]: Kimball, S., Schiffman, P.M., 2003. Differing effects of cattle grazing on native and alien plants. Conserv. Biol. 17, 1681–1693. [[Kimball_DifferingEffectsCattleGrazingNative_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kimball%2C%20S.%20Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Differing%20effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20on%20native%20and%20alien%20plants%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kimball%2C%20S.%20Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Differing%20effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20on%20native%20and%20alien%20plants%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kimball%2C%20S.%20Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Differing%20effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20on%20native%20and%20alien%20plants%202003)

[^Knopf_1996_a]: Knopf, F.L., 1996. Perspectives on grazing nongame bird habitats. In: Krausman, P.R. (Ed.), Rangeland Wildlife. The Society for Range Management, Denver, Colorado, pp. 51–58. [[Knopf_PerspectivesGrazingNongameBirdHabitats_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Knopf%2C%20F.L.%20Perspectives%20on%20grazing%20nongame%20bird%20habitats%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Knopf%2C%20F.L.%20Perspectives%20on%20grazing%20nongame%20bird%20habitats%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Knopf%2C%20F.L.%20Perspectives%20on%20grazing%20nongame%20bird%20habitats%201996)

[^Lacey_1996_a]: Lacey, J.R., Sheley, R.L., 1996. Leafy spurge and grass response to picloram and intensive grazing. J. Range Manage. 49, 311–314. [[Lacey_LeafySpurgeGrassResponsePicloram_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Leafy%20spurge%20and%20grass%20response%20to%20picloram%20and%20intensive%20grazing%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Leafy%20spurge%20and%20grass%20response%20to%20picloram%20and%20intensive%20grazing%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Leafy%20spurge%20and%20grass%20response%20to%20picloram%20and%20intensive%20grazing%201996)

[^Lawrence_et+al_1995_a]: Lawrence, B.K., Waller, S.S., Moser, L.E., Anderson, B.E., Larson, L.L., 1995. Weed suppression with grazing or atrazine during big bluestem establishment. J. Range Manage. 48, 307–313. [[Lawrence_et+al_WeedSuppressionWithGrazingAtrazine_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lawrence%2C%20B.K.%20Waller%2C%20S.S.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Anderson%2C%20B.E.%20Weed%20suppression%20with%20grazing%20or%20atrazine%20during%20big%20bluestem%20establishment%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lawrence%2C%20B.K.%20Waller%2C%20S.S.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Anderson%2C%20B.E.%20Weed%20suppression%20with%20grazing%20or%20atrazine%20during%20big%20bluestem%20establishment%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lawrence%2C%20B.K.%20Waller%2C%20S.S.%20Moser%2C%20L.E.%20Anderson%2C%20B.E.%20Weed%20suppression%20with%20grazing%20or%20atrazine%20during%20big%20bluestem%20establishment%201995)

[^Lonsdale_1999_a]: Lonsdale, W.M., 1999. Global patterns of plant invasions and the concept of invasibilty. Ecol. 80, 1522–1536. [[Lonsdale_GlobalPatternsPlantInvasionsConcept_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibilty%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibilty%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibilty%201999)

[^Lowe_et+al_2002_a]: Lowe, P.N., Lauenroth, W.K., Burke, I.C., 2002. Effects of nitrogen availability on the growth of native grasses and exotic weeds. J. Range Manage. 55, 94– 98. [[Lowe_et+al_EffectsNitrogenAvailabilityGrowthNative_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lowe%2C%20P.N.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Burke%2C%20I.C.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20availability%20on%20the%20growth%20of%20native%20grasses%20and%20exotic%20weeds%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lowe%2C%20P.N.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Burke%2C%20I.C.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20availability%20on%20the%20growth%20of%20native%20grasses%20and%20exotic%20weeds%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lowe%2C%20P.N.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Burke%2C%20I.C.%20Effects%20of%20nitrogen%20availability%20on%20the%20growth%20of%20native%20grasses%20and%20exotic%20weeds%202002)

[^Malo_et+al_2000_a]: Malo, J.E., Jimenez, B., Suarez, F., 2000. Herbivore dunging and endozoochorous seed deposition in a Mediterranean dehesa. J. Range Manage. 53, 322– 328. [[Malo_et+al_HerbivoreDungingEndozoochorousSeedDeposition_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Malo%2C%20J.E.%20Jimenez%2C%20B.%20Suarez%2C%20F.%20Herbivore%20dunging%20and%20endozoochorous%20seed%20deposition%20in%20a%20Mediterranean%20dehesa%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Malo%2C%20J.E.%20Jimenez%2C%20B.%20Suarez%2C%20F.%20Herbivore%20dunging%20and%20endozoochorous%20seed%20deposition%20in%20a%20Mediterranean%20dehesa%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Malo%2C%20J.E.%20Jimenez%2C%20B.%20Suarez%2C%20F.%20Herbivore%20dunging%20and%20endozoochorous%20seed%20deposition%20in%20a%20Mediterranean%20dehesa%202000)

[^Meeuwig_1975_a]: Meeuwig, R.O., Packer, P.E., 1975. Erosion and runoff on forest and rangelands. Watershed Manage. Range Forest Lands 105–116. [[Meeuwig_ErosionRunoffForestRangelandsWatershed_1975]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Meeuwig%2C%20R.O.%20Packer%2C%20P.E.%20Erosion%20and%20runoff%20on%20forest%20and%20rangelands.%20Watershed%20Manage.%20Range%20Forest%20Lands%20105%E2%80%93116%201975) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Meeuwig%2C%20R.O.%20Packer%2C%20P.E.%20Erosion%20and%20runoff%20on%20forest%20and%20rangelands.%20Watershed%20Manage.%20Range%20Forest%20Lands%20105%E2%80%93116%201975) 

[^Milchunas_1993_a]: Milchunas, D.G., Lauenroth, W.K., 1993. Quantitive effects of grazing on vegetation and soils over a global range of environments. Ecol. Monogr. 63, 327–366. [[Milchunas_QuantitiveEffectsGrazingVegetationSoils_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Quantitive%20effects%20of%20grazing%20on%20vegetation%20and%20soils%20over%20a%20global%20range%20of%20environments%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Quantitive%20effects%20of%20grazing%20on%20vegetation%20and%20soils%20over%20a%20global%20range%20of%20environments%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Milchunas%2C%20D.G.%20Lauenroth%2C%20W.K.%20Quantitive%20effects%20of%20grazing%20on%20vegetation%20and%20soils%20over%20a%20global%20range%20of%20environments%201993)

[^Nevill_et+al_1995_a]: Nevill, R.J., Hall, P.M., Beale, J., 1995. Forest health research needs in British Columbia. Forestry Chron. 71, 489–496. [[Nevill_et+al__1995]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nevill%20RJ%20Hall%20PM%20Beale%20J%201995%20Forest%20health%20research%20needs%20in%20British%20Columbia%20Forestry%20Chron%2071%20489496) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nevill%20RJ%20Hall%20PM%20Beale%20J%201995%20Forest%20health%20research%20needs%20in%20British%20Columbia%20Forestry%20Chron%2071%20489496) 

[^Nernberg_1997_a]: Nernberg, D., Dale, M.R.T., 1997. Competition of five native prairie grasses with Bromus inermis under three moisture regimes. Can. J. Bot. 75, 2140– 2145. [[Nernberg_CompetitionFiveNativePrairieGrasses_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nernberg%2C%20D.%20Dale%2C%20M.R.T.%20Competition%20of%20five%20native%20prairie%20grasses%20with%20Bromus%20inermis%20under%20three%20moisture%20regimes%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nernberg%2C%20D.%20Dale%2C%20M.R.T.%20Competition%20of%20five%20native%20prairie%20grasses%20with%20Bromus%20inermis%20under%20three%20moisture%20regimes%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nernberg%2C%20D.%20Dale%2C%20M.R.T.%20Competition%20of%20five%20native%20prairie%20grasses%20with%20Bromus%20inermis%20under%20three%20moisture%20regimes%201997)

[^Olson_et+al_1997_a]: Olson, B.E., Wallander, R.T., Kott, R.W., 1997. Recovery of leafy spurge seed from sheep. J. Range Manage. 50, 10–15. [[Olson_et+al_RecoveryLeafySpurgeSeedFrom_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Kott%2C%20R.W.%20Recovery%20of%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20from%20sheep%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Kott%2C%20R.W.%20Recovery%20of%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20from%20sheep%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Kott%2C%20R.W.%20Recovery%20of%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20from%20sheep%201997)

[^Olson_2002_a]: Olson, B.E., Wallander, R.T., 2002. Does ruminal retention time affect leafy spurge seed of varying maturity? J. Range Manage. 55, 65–69. [[Olson_DoesRuminalRetentionTimeAffect_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Does%20ruminal%20retention%20time%20affect%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20of%20varying%20maturity%3F%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Does%20ruminal%20retention%20time%20affect%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20of%20varying%20maturity%3F%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Does%20ruminal%20retention%20time%20affect%20leafy%20spurge%20seed%20of%20varying%20maturity%3F%202002)

[^Olson_1999_a]: Olson, B.E., 1999. Impacts of noxious weeds on ecologic and economic systems. In: Sheley, R.L., Petroff, J.K. (Eds.), Biology and Management of Noxious Rangeland Weeds. OSU Press, Corvallis, Oregon. [[Olson_ImpactsNoxiousWeedsEcologicEconomic_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Impacts%20of%20noxious%20weeds%20on%20ecologic%20and%20economic%20systems%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Impacts%20of%20noxious%20weeds%20on%20ecologic%20and%20economic%20systems%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Impacts%20of%20noxious%20weeds%20on%20ecologic%20and%20economic%20systems%201999)

[^Packer_1963_a]: Packer, P.E., 1963. Soil stability requirements for the Gallatin Elk Winter Range. J. Wildl. Manage. 27, 401–410. [[Packer_SoilStabilityRequirementsGallatinElk_1963]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Packer%2C%20P.E.%20Soil%20stability%20requirements%20for%20the%20Gallatin%20Elk%20Winter%20Range%201963) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Packer%2C%20P.E.%20Soil%20stability%20requirements%20for%20the%20Gallatin%20Elk%20Winter%20Range%201963) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Packer%2C%20P.E.%20Soil%20stability%20requirements%20for%20the%20Gallatin%20Elk%20Winter%20Range%201963)

[^Parker_et+al_2006_a]: Parker, J.D., Burkepile, D.E., Hay, M.E., 2006. Opposing effects of native and exotic herbivores on plant invasions. Science 311, 1459–1461. [[Parker_et+al_OpposingEffectsNativeExoticHerbivores_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parker%2C%20J.D.%20Burkepile%2C%20D.E.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Opposing%20effects%20of%20native%20and%20exotic%20herbivores%20on%20plant%20invasions%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parker%2C%20J.D.%20Burkepile%2C%20D.E.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Opposing%20effects%20of%20native%20and%20exotic%20herbivores%20on%20plant%20invasions%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parker%2C%20J.D.%20Burkepile%2C%20D.E.%20Hay%2C%20M.E.%20Opposing%20effects%20of%20native%20and%20exotic%20herbivores%20on%20plant%20invasions%202006)

[^Parks_et+al_2005_a]: Parks, C.G., Radosevich, S.R., Endress, B.A., Naylor, B.J., Anzinger, D., Rew, L.J., Maxwell, B.D., Dwire, K.A., 2005. Natural and land-use history of the Northwest mountain ecoregions (USA) in relation to patterns of plant invasions. Perspect. Plant Ecol. Evol. Syst. 7 (3), 137–158. [[Parks_et+al_NaturalLandHistoryNorthwestMountain_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parks%2C%20C.G.%20Radosevich%2C%20S.R.%20Endress%2C%20B.A.%20Naylor%2C%20B.J.%20Natural%20and%20land-use%20history%20of%20the%20Northwest%20mountain%20ecoregions%20%28USA%29%20in%20relation%20to%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parks%2C%20C.G.%20Radosevich%2C%20S.R.%20Endress%2C%20B.A.%20Naylor%2C%20B.J.%20Natural%20and%20land-use%20history%20of%20the%20Northwest%20mountain%20ecoregions%20%28USA%29%20in%20relation%20to%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parks%2C%20C.G.%20Radosevich%2C%20S.R.%20Endress%2C%20B.A.%20Naylor%2C%20B.J.%20Natural%20and%20land-use%20history%20of%20the%20Northwest%20mountain%20ecoregions%20%28USA%29%20in%20relation%20to%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%202005)

[^Riegel_et+al_1991_a]: Riegel, G.M., Miller, R.R., Krueger, W.C., 1991. Understory vegetation response to increasing water and nitrogen levels in a Pinus ponderosa forest in Ortheastern Oregon. Northwest Sci. 65, 10–15. [[Riegel_et+al_UnderstoryVegetationResponseIncreasingWater_1991]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Riegel%2C%20G.M.%20Miller%2C%20R.R.%20Krueger%2C%20W.C.%20Understory%20vegetation%20response%20to%20increasing%20water%20and%20nitrogen%20levels%20in%20a%20Pinus%20ponderosa%20forest%20in%20Ortheastern%20Oregon%201991) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riegel%2C%20G.M.%20Miller%2C%20R.R.%20Krueger%2C%20W.C.%20Understory%20vegetation%20response%20to%20increasing%20water%20and%20nitrogen%20levels%20in%20a%20Pinus%20ponderosa%20forest%20in%20Ortheastern%20Oregon%201991) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Riegel%2C%20G.M.%20Miller%2C%20R.R.%20Krueger%2C%20W.C.%20Understory%20vegetation%20response%20to%20increasing%20water%20and%20nitrogen%20levels%20in%20a%20Pinus%20ponderosa%20forest%20in%20Ortheastern%20Oregon%201991)

[^Riggs_et+al_2000_a]: Riggs, R.A., Tiedemann, A.R., Cook, J.G., Ballard, T.M., Edgerton, P.J., Vavra, M., Krueger, W.C., Hall, F.C., Bryant, L.D., Irwin, L.L., DelCurto, T., 2000. Modification of mixed-conifer forests by ruminant herbivores in the Blue Mountains Ecological Province. USDA, Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Station, Research Paper PNW-RP-527. [[Riggs_et+al_ModificationMixedconiferForestsRuminantHerbivores_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riggs%2C%20R.A.%20Tiedemann%2C%20A.R.%20Cook%2C%20J.G.%20Ballard%2C%20T.M.%20Modification%20of%20mixed-conifer%20forests%20by%20ruminant%20herbivores%20in%20the%20Blue%20Mountains%20Ecological%20Province.%20USDA%2C%20Forest%20Service%2C%20Pacific%20Northwest%20Station%2C%20Research%20Paper%20PNW-RP-527%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riggs%2C%20R.A.%20Tiedemann%2C%20A.R.%20Cook%2C%20J.G.%20Ballard%2C%20T.M.%20Modification%20of%20mixed-conifer%20forests%20by%20ruminant%20herbivores%20in%20the%20Blue%20Mountains%20Ecological%20Province.%20USDA%2C%20Forest%20Service%2C%20Pacific%20Northwest%20Station%2C%20Research%20Paper%20PNW-RP-527%202000) 

[^Riggs_et+al_2005_a]: Riggs, R.A., Cook, J.G., Irwin, L.L., 2005. Management implications of ungulate herbivory in Northwest forest ecosystems. In: Wisdom, M.J. (tech. Ed.), The Starkey Project: A Synthesis of Long-Term Studies of Elk and Mule Deer. Alliance Communications Group, Lawrence, Kansas, pp. 217– 232. [[Riggs_et+al_ManagementImplicationsUngulateHerbivoryNorthwest_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Riggs%2C%20R.A.%20Cook%2C%20J.G.%20Irwin%2C%20L.L.%20Management%20implications%20of%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20Northwest%20forest%20ecosystems%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Riggs%2C%20R.A.%20Cook%2C%20J.G.%20Irwin%2C%20L.L.%20Management%20implications%20of%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20Northwest%20forest%20ecosystems%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Riggs%2C%20R.A.%20Cook%2C%20J.G.%20Irwin%2C%20L.L.%20Management%20implications%20of%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20Northwest%20forest%20ecosystems%202005)

[^Schiffman_1997_a]: Schiffman, P.M., 1997. Animal-mediated dispersal and disturbance: driving forces behind alien plant naturalization. In: Luken, J.O., Thieret, J.W. (Eds.), Assessment and Management of Plant Invasions. Springer-Verlag, New York, pp. 87–94. [[Schiffman_AnimalmediatedDispersalDisturbanceDrivingForces_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Animal-mediated%20dispersal%20and%20disturbance%3A%20driving%20forces%20behind%20alien%20plant%20naturalization%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Animal-mediated%20dispersal%20and%20disturbance%3A%20driving%20forces%20behind%20alien%20plant%20naturalization%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schiffman%2C%20P.M.%20Animal-mediated%20dispersal%20and%20disturbance%3A%20driving%20forces%20behind%20alien%20plant%20naturalization%201997)

[^Schreiner_et+al_1996_a]: Schreiner, E.G., Krueger, K.A., Happe, P.J., Houston, D.B., 1996. Understory patch dynamics and ungulate herbivory in old-growth forests of Olympic National Park, Washington. Can. J. Forest Res. 26, 255–265. [[Schreiner_et+al_UnderstoryPatchDynamicsUngulateHerbivory_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schreiner%2C%20E.G.%20Krueger%2C%20K.A.%20Happe%2C%20P.J.%20Houston%2C%20D.B.%20Understory%20patch%20dynamics%20and%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20old-growth%20forests%20of%20Olympic%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schreiner%2C%20E.G.%20Krueger%2C%20K.A.%20Happe%2C%20P.J.%20Houston%2C%20D.B.%20Understory%20patch%20dynamics%20and%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20old-growth%20forests%20of%20Olympic%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schreiner%2C%20E.G.%20Krueger%2C%20K.A.%20Happe%2C%20P.J.%20Houston%2C%20D.B.%20Understory%20patch%20dynamics%20and%20ungulate%20herbivory%20in%20old-growth%20forests%20of%20Olympic%201996)

[^Severson_1994_a]: Severson, K.E., Urness, P.J., 1994. Livestock grazing: a tool to improve wildlife habitat. In: Vavra, M., Laycock, W.A., Pieper, R.D. (Eds.), Ecological Implications of Livestock Herbivory in the West. Society for Range Management, Denver, CO., pp. 232–249. [[Severson_LivestockGrazingToolImproveWildlife_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Severson%2C%20K.E.%20Urness%2C%20P.J.%20Livestock%20grazing%3A%20a%20tool%20to%20improve%20wildlife%20habitat%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Severson%2C%20K.E.%20Urness%2C%20P.J.%20Livestock%20grazing%3A%20a%20tool%20to%20improve%20wildlife%20habitat%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Severson%2C%20K.E.%20Urness%2C%20P.J.%20Livestock%20grazing%3A%20a%20tool%20to%20improve%20wildlife%20habitat%201994)

[^Sheley_1999_a]: Sheley, R.L., Petroff, J.K. (Eds.), 1999. Biology and Management of Noxious Rangeland Weeds. Oregon State University Press, Corvallis, Oregon. [[Sheley_BiologyManagementNoxiousRangelandWeeds_1999]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sheley%20RL%20Petroff%20JK%20Eds%201999%20Biology%20and%20Management%20of%20Noxious%20Rangeland%20Weeds%20Oregon%20State%20University%20Press%20Corvallis%20Oregon) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sheley%20RL%20Petroff%20JK%20Eds%201999%20Biology%20and%20Management%20of%20Noxious%20Rangeland%20Weeds%20Oregon%20State%20University%20Press%20Corvallis%20Oregon) 

[^Sheley_et+al_1997_a]: Sheley, R.L., Olson, B.E., Larson, L., 1997. Effect of weed seed rate and grass defoliation level on diffuse knapweed. J. Range Manage. 50, 39–43. [[Sheley_et+al_EffectWeedSeedRateGrass_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Larson%2C%20L.%20Effect%20of%20weed%20seed%20rate%20and%20grass%20defoliation%20level%20on%20diffuse%20knapweed%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Larson%2C%20L.%20Effect%20of%20weed%20seed%20rate%20and%20grass%20defoliation%20level%20on%20diffuse%20knapweed%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sheley%2C%20R.L.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Larson%2C%20L.%20Effect%20of%20weed%20seed%20rate%20and%20grass%20defoliation%20level%20on%20diffuse%20knapweed%201997)

[^Skovlin_et+al_1976_a]: Skovlin, J.M., Harris, R.M., Strickler, G.S., Garrison, G.A., 1976. Effects of cattle grazing methods on ponderosa pine-bunchgrass range in the Pacific Northwest. Tech. Bull. U.S. Dept. Agric.: Forest Serv. 1531 40 pp. [[Skovlin_et+al_EffectsCattleGrazingMethodsPonderosa_1976]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Skovlin%2C%20J.M.%20Harris%2C%20R.M.%20Strickler%2C%20G.S.%20Garrison%2C%20G.A.%20Effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20methods%20on%20ponderosa%20pine-bunchgrass%20range%20in%20the%20Pacific%20Northwest%201976) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Skovlin%2C%20J.M.%20Harris%2C%20R.M.%20Strickler%2C%20G.S.%20Garrison%2C%20G.A.%20Effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20methods%20on%20ponderosa%20pine-bunchgrass%20range%20in%20the%20Pacific%20Northwest%201976) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Skovlin%2C%20J.M.%20Harris%2C%20R.M.%20Strickler%2C%20G.S.%20Garrison%2C%20G.A.%20Effects%20of%20cattle%20grazing%20methods%20on%20ponderosa%20pine-bunchgrass%20range%20in%20the%20Pacific%20Northwest%201976)

[^Smith_1949_a]: Smith, A.D., 1949. Effects of mule deer and livestock upon a foothill range in northern Utah. J. Wildl. Manage. 36, 4210423. [[Smith_EffectsMuleDeerLivestockUpon_1949]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Smith%2C%20A.%20D.%2C%201949%20Effects%20of%20mule%20deer%20and%20livestock%20upon%20a%20foothill%20range%20in%20northern%20Utah%201949) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Smith%2C%20A.%20D.%2C%201949%20Effects%20of%20mule%20deer%20and%20livestock%20upon%20a%20foothill%20range%20in%20northern%20Utah%201949) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Smith%2C%20A.%20D.%2C%201949%20Effects%20of%20mule%20deer%20and%20livestock%20upon%20a%20foothill%20range%20in%20northern%20Utah%201949)

[^Stolgren_et+al_1999_a]: Stolgren, T.J., Schell, L.D., Heuvel, B.V., 1999. How grazing and soil quality affect native and exotic plant diversity in Rocky Mountain grasslands. Ecol. Appl. 9, 45–64. [[Stolgren_et+al_GrazingSoilQualityAffectNative_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Stolgren%2C%20T.J.%20Schell%2C%20L.D.%20Heuvel%2C%20B.V.%20How%20grazing%20and%20soil%20quality%20affect%20native%20and%20exotic%20plant%20diversity%20in%20Rocky%20Mountain%20grasslands%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Stolgren%2C%20T.J.%20Schell%2C%20L.D.%20Heuvel%2C%20B.V.%20How%20grazing%20and%20soil%20quality%20affect%20native%20and%20exotic%20plant%20diversity%20in%20Rocky%20Mountain%20grasslands%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Stolgren%2C%20T.J.%20Schell%2C%20L.D.%20Heuvel%2C%20B.V.%20How%20grazing%20and%20soil%20quality%20affect%20native%20and%20exotic%20plant%20diversity%20in%20Rocky%20Mountain%20grasslands%201999)

[^Thill_1986_a]: Thill, D.C., Zamora, D.L., Kambitsch, D.L., 1986. The germination and viability of excreted common crupina (Crupina vulgaris) achenes. Weed Sci. 34, 237–241. [[Thill_GerminationViabilityExcretedCommonCrupina_1986]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Thill%20DC%20Zamora%20DL%20Kambitsch%20DL%201986%20The%20germination%20and%20viability%20of%20excreted%20common%20crupina%20Crupina%20vulgaris%20achenes%20Weed%20Sci%2034%20237241) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Thill%20DC%20Zamora%20DL%20Kambitsch%20DL%201986%20The%20germination%20and%20viability%20of%20excreted%20common%20crupina%20Crupina%20vulgaris%20achenes%20Weed%20Sci%2034%20237241) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Thill%20DC%20Zamora%20DL%20Kambitsch%20DL%201986%20The%20germination%20and%20viability%20of%20excreted%20common%20crupina%20Crupina%20vulgaris%20achenes%20Weed%20Sci%2034%20237241)

[^Tiedemann_1972_a]: Tiedemann, A.R., Berndt, H.W., 1972. Vegetation and soils of a 30-year deer and elk exclosure in central Washington. Northwest Sci. 46, 59–66. [[Tiedemann_VegetationSoils30yearDeerExclosure_1972]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tiedemann%2C%20A.R.%20Berndt%2C%20H.W.%20Vegetation%20and%20soils%20of%20a%2030-year%20deer%20and%20elk%20exclosure%20in%20central%20Washington%201972) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tiedemann%2C%20A.R.%20Berndt%2C%20H.W.%20Vegetation%20and%20soils%20of%20a%2030-year%20deer%20and%20elk%20exclosure%20in%20central%20Washington%201972) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tiedemann%2C%20A.R.%20Berndt%2C%20H.W.%20Vegetation%20and%20soils%20of%20a%2030-year%20deer%20and%20elk%20exclosure%20in%20central%20Washington%201972)

[^Vallentine_1994_a]: Vallentine, J.F., Stevens, A.R., 1994. Use of livestock to control cheatgrass—a review. In: Monsen, S.B., Kitchen, S.G. (Eds.), Proceedings—Ecology and Management of Annual Rangelands. USDA Forest Service Intermountain Research Station, Ogden, UT, (General Technical Report INT-GTR-313), pp. 202–206. [[Vallentine_LivestockControlCheatgrassReview_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vallentine%2C%20J.F.%20Stevens%2C%20A.R.%20Use%20of%20livestock%20to%20control%20cheatgrass%E2%80%94a%20review%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vallentine%2C%20J.F.%20Stevens%2C%20A.R.%20Use%20of%20livestock%20to%20control%20cheatgrass%E2%80%94a%20review%201994) 

[^Vavra_1996_a]: Vavra, M., Sheehy, D.P., 1996. Improving elk habitat characteristics with livestock grazing. Rangelands 18, 182–185. [[Vavra_ImprovingHabitatCharacteristicsWithLivestock_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vavra%2C%20M.%20Sheehy%2C%20D.P.%20Improving%20elk%20habitat%20characteristics%20with%20livestock%20grazing%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vavra%2C%20M.%20Sheehy%2C%20D.P.%20Improving%20elk%20habitat%20characteristics%20with%20livestock%20grazing%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vavra%2C%20M.%20Sheehy%2C%20D.P.%20Improving%20elk%20habitat%20characteristics%20with%20livestock%20grazing%201996)

[^Velland_et+al_2003_a]: Velland, M., Myers, J.A., Gardescu, S., Marks, P.L., 2003. Dispersal of Trillium seeds by deer: implicatins for long distance digration of forest herbs. Ecology 84, 1067–1072. [[Velland_et+al_DispersalTrilliumSeedsDeerImplicatins_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Velland%2C%20M.%20Myers%2C%20J.A.%20Gardescu%2C%20S.%20Marks%2C%20P.L.%20Dispersal%20of%20Trillium%20seeds%20by%20deer%3A%20implicatins%20for%20long%20distance%20digration%20of%20forest%20herbs%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Velland%2C%20M.%20Myers%2C%20J.A.%20Gardescu%2C%20S.%20Marks%2C%20P.L.%20Dispersal%20of%20Trillium%20seeds%20by%20deer%3A%20implicatins%20for%20long%20distance%20digration%20of%20forest%20herbs%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Velland%2C%20M.%20Myers%2C%20J.A.%20Gardescu%2C%20S.%20Marks%2C%20P.L.%20Dispersal%20of%20Trillium%20seeds%20by%20deer%3A%20implicatins%20for%20long%20distance%20digration%20of%20forest%20herbs%202003)

[^Wallander_et+al_1995_a]: Wallander, R.T., Olson, B.E., Lacey, J.R., 1995. Spotted knapweed seed viability after passing sheep and mule deer. J. Range Manage. 48, 145–149. [[Wallander_et+al_SpottedKnapweedSeedViabilityAfter_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Spotted%20knapweed%20seed%20viability%20after%20passing%20sheep%20and%20mule%20deer%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Spotted%20knapweed%20seed%20viability%20after%20passing%20sheep%20and%20mule%20deer%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wallander%2C%20R.T.%20Olson%2C%20B.E.%20Lacey%2C%20J.R.%20Spotted%20knapweed%20seed%20viability%20after%20passing%20sheep%20and%20mule%20deer%201995)

[^Wardle_2004_a]: Wardle, D.A., Bardgett, R.D., 2004. Human-induced changes in large herbivorous mammal density: the consequences for decomposers. Front. Ecol. Environ. 2 (3), 145–153. [[Wardle_HumaninducedChangesLargeHerbivorousMammal_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Bardgett%2C%20R.D.%20Human-induced%20changes%20in%20large%20herbivorous%20mammal%20density%3A%20the%20consequences%20for%20decomposers.%20Front%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Bardgett%2C%20R.D.%20Human-induced%20changes%20in%20large%20herbivorous%20mammal%20density%3A%20the%20consequences%20for%20decomposers.%20Front%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Bardgett%2C%20R.D.%20Human-induced%20changes%20in%20large%20herbivorous%20mammal%20density%3A%20the%20consequences%20for%20decomposers.%20Front%202004)

[^Wedin_1993_a]: Wedin, D., Tilman, D., 1993. Competition among grasses along a nitrogen gradient; initial conditions and mechanisms of competition. Ecol. Monogr. 63, 199–229. [[Wedin_CompetitionAmongGrassesAlongNitrogen_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wedin%2C%20D.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Competition%20among%20grasses%20along%20a%20nitrogen%20gradient%3B%20initial%20conditions%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20competition%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wedin%2C%20D.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Competition%20among%20grasses%20along%20a%20nitrogen%20gradient%3B%20initial%20conditions%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20competition%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wedin%2C%20D.%20Tilman%2C%20D.%20Competition%20among%20grasses%20along%20a%20nitrogen%20gradient%3B%20initial%20conditions%20and%20mechanisms%20of%20competition%201993)

[^Weisberg_et+al_2002_a]: Weisberg, P.J., Hobbs, N.T., Ellis, J.E., Coughenour, M.B., 2002. An ecosystem approach to population management of ungulates. J. Environ. Manage. 65, 181–197. [[Weisberg_et+al_EcosystemApproachPopulationManagementUngulates_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Weisberg%2C%20P.J.%20Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Ellis%2C%20J.E.%20Coughenour%2C%20M.%20An%20ecosystem%20approach%20to%20population%20management%20of%20ungulates%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weisberg%2C%20P.J.%20Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Ellis%2C%20J.E.%20Coughenour%2C%20M.%20An%20ecosystem%20approach%20to%20population%20management%20of%20ungulates%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Weisberg%2C%20P.J.%20Hobbs%2C%20N.T.%20Ellis%2C%20J.E.%20Coughenour%2C%20M.%20An%20ecosystem%20approach%20to%20population%20management%20of%20ungulates%202002)

[^Westbrooks_1998_a]: Westbrooks, R., 1998. Invasive Plants, Changing the Landscape of America: Fact Book. Federal Interagency Committee for the Management of Noxious and Exotic Weeds (FICMNEW), Washington, DC. [[Westbrooks_InvasivePlantsChangingLandscapeAmerica_1998]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Westbrooks%2C%20R.%20Invasive%20Plants%2C%20Changing%20the%20Landscape%20of%20America%3A%20Fact%20Book.%20Federal%20Interagency%20Committee%20for%20the%20Management%20of%20Noxious%20and%20Exotic%20Weeds%20%28FICMNEW%29%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Westbrooks%2C%20R.%20Invasive%20Plants%2C%20Changing%20the%20Landscape%20of%20America%3A%20Fact%20Book.%20Federal%20Interagency%20Committee%20for%20the%20Management%20of%20Noxious%20and%20Exotic%20Weeds%20%28FICMNEW%29%201998) 

[^Wisdom_1996_a]: Wisdom, M.J., Thomas, J.W., 1996. Elk. In: Krausman, P.R. (Ed.), Rangeland Wildlife. Society for Range Management, Denver, Colorado. [[Wisdom__1996]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wisdom%20MJ%20Thomas%20JW%201996%20Elk%20In%20Krausman%20PR%20Ed%20Rangeland%20Wildlife%20Society%20for%20Range%20Management%20Denver%20Colorado) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wisdom%20MJ%20Thomas%20JW%201996%20Elk%20In%20Krausman%20PR%20Ed%20Rangeland%20Wildlife%20Society%20for%20Range%20Management%20Denver%20Colorado) 

[^Wisdom_et+al_2006_a]: Wisdom, M.J., Vavra, M., Boyd, J.M., Hemstrom, M.A., Ager, A.A., Johnson, B.K., 2006. Understanding ungulate herbivory-episodic disturbance effects: knowledge gaps and management needs. Wildl. Soc. Bull. 34, 283–292. [[Wisdom_et+al_UnderstandingUngulateHerbivoryepisodicDisturbanceEffects_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wisdom%2C%20M.J.%20Vavra%2C%20M.%20Boyd%2C%20J.M.%20Hemstrom%2C%20M.A.%20Understanding%20ungulate%20herbivory-episodic%20disturbance%20effects%3A%20knowledge%20gaps%20and%20management%20needs%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wisdom%2C%20M.J.%20Vavra%2C%20M.%20Boyd%2C%20J.M.%20Hemstrom%2C%20M.A.%20Understanding%20ungulate%20herbivory-episodic%20disturbance%20effects%3A%20knowledge%20gaps%20and%20management%20needs%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wisdom%2C%20M.J.%20Vavra%2C%20M.%20Boyd%2C%20J.M.%20Hemstrom%2C%20M.A.%20Understanding%20ungulate%20herbivory-episodic%20disturbance%20effects%3A%20knowledge%20gaps%20and%20management%20needs%202006)

