[[Vilà_et+al_EcologicalImpactsInvasiveAlienPlants_2011]]

# [Ecological impacts of invasive alien plants: a meta-analysis of their effects on species, communities and ecosystems](https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2011.01628.x)

## [[Montserrat Vilà]]; [[José L Espinar]]; [[Martin Hejda]] et al.

### 2011

## Abstract
Biological invasions cause ecological and economic impacts across the globe. However, it is unclear whether there are strong patterns in terms of their major effects, how the vulnerability of different ecosystems varies and which ecosystem services are at greatest risk. ==We present a global meta-analysis of 199 articles reporting 1041 field studies that in total describe the impacts of 135 alien plant taxa on resident species, communities and ecosystems==. Across studies, alien plants had a significant effect in 11 of 24 different types of impact assessed. The magnitude and direction of the impact varied both within and between different types of impact. On average, abundance and diversity of the resident species decreased in invaded sites, whereas primary production and several ecosystem processes were enhanced. While alien N-fixing species had greater impacts on N-cycling variables, they did not consistently affect other impact types. The magnitude of the impacts was not significantly different between island and mainland ecosystems. Overall, alien species impacts are heterogeneous and not unidirectional even within particular impact types. ==Our analysis also reveals that by the time changes in nutrient cycling are detected, major impacts on plant species and communities are likely to have already occurred==.

## Key concepts
#finding/effect_size; #claim/diversity; #claim/plant_species; #finding/island; #claim/alien_species; #ecology; #invasive_plant; #claim/nutrient_cycling; #ecological_complexity; #ecosystem_service; #weeds; #metaanalysis; #claim/resident_species; #exotic_species

## Quote
> Our analysis provides rigorous evidence that alien plant species exert significant impacts on many ecological variables


## Key points
- Given the increasing pace of global change, it is becoming more important than ever to understand how human activities are altering biodiversity and ecosystem functioning ([^Tylianakis_et+al_2008_a])
- : For categorical comparisons (e.g. N-fixing vs. non-N-fixing), we examined Prandom values associated to Qbetween statistic (Qb hereafter), which describe the variation in effect sizes that can be ascribed to differences between categories
- Our analysis provides rigorous evidence that alien plant species exert significant impacts on many ecological variables
- Impacts on plant species and communities were substantial whereas those on nutrient cycling were relatively minor. This indicates that by the time impacts on nutrient cycling are detected, plant species and communities are likely to have already been affected by invasion
- Our analysis suggests that alien plant invasions may result in a sampling effect where ecosystem production is driven by the addition of a single highly productive species, even if overall species diversity declines
- There were no significant differences in the mean effect sizes between studies conducted on islands and on the mainland
- Current evidence suggests that compared with non-N-fixing species, N-fixing alien species more strongly affect N and C cycling ([^Liao_et+al_2008_a]), but our results indicate that no such differences are found for impacts on other ecosystem processes or on community structure

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Given the increasing pace of global change, it is becoming more important than ever to understand how human activities are altering biodiversity and ecosystem functioning ([^Tylianakis_et+al_2008_a]).
While there are a growing number of studies reporting impacts of alien plants, the authors still lack broad quantitative syntheses of how impacts vary depending on the attributes of recipient ecosystems and of the invaders themselves ([^Levine_et+al_2003_a]).
This absence of a broad-scale assessment limits the ability to generalize and predict when and where impacts might be most deleterious

### Objectives
The authors' goal was to determine how the magnitude and direction of alien species impacts vary across levels of ecological complexity

### Methods
The authors used several data sources to gather quantitative evidence from the literature on the ecological impacts of alien plants upon: (1) individual plant and animal species performance, (2) characteristics of the recipient community and (3) ecosystem processes.
The authors screened the reference lists from all retrieved articles for other relevant publications.
As some of those articles were reviews
The authors examined each article to assess their potential for meeting the selection criteria for inclusion in the review.
The main selection criterion required studies to compare quantitatively any ecological pattern or process in both invaded and uninvaded plots in natural or semi-natural ecosystems.
This resulted in an initial set of 515 articles from which the following criteria for data inclusion were adopted:

### Results
Mean effect sizes differed significantly among the impact types examined
= 1016, P < 0.0001; see Appendix S4 for Qt of each impact type)
This result indicates that even for particular impact types the magnitude and direction of the effect size varied significantly across studies.
For 11 of the 24 impact types examined, the CI of the mean effect size overlapped zero (Figs 1 and 2).
For these impact types, the authors could not support the hypothesis that the variables examined changed uniformly with invasion, due to heterogeneity in the direction of effects found for different studies (Appendix S4)

### Conclusion
The authors' analysis provides rigorous evidence that alien plant species exert significant impacts on many ecological variables.
The magnitude and direction of these impacts vary among different levels of ecological complexity.
Impacts on plant species and communities were substantial whereas those on nutrient cycling were relatively minor.
This indicates that by the time impacts on nutrient cycling are detected, plant species and communities are likely to have already been affected by invasion.
The causal N-fixing Insularity Qb Nyes, Nno P.
7.25 4, 86 0.06 4.74 13, 77 0.14 communities Abundance Diversity


## Study subjects

### 199 articles
- However, it is unclear whether there are strong patterns in terms of their major effects, how the vulnerability of different ecosystems varies and which ecosystem services are at greatest risk. ==We present a global meta-analysis of 199 articles reporting 1041 field studies that in total describe the impacts of 135 alien plant taxa on resident species, communities and ecosystems==. Across studies, alien plants had a significant effect in 11 of 24 different types of impact assessed

### 515 articles
- We did not include studies conducted in agricultural systems as this topic has been reviewed elsewhere (Vilaet al. 2004). ==This resulted in an initial set of 515 articles from which the following criteria for data inclusion were adopted:==. 

### 515 articles
- We did not include studies conducted in agricultural systems as this topic has been reviewed elsewhere (Vilaet al. 2004). ==This resulted in an initial set of 515 articles from which the following criteria for data inclusion were adopted: (1) Replicated field studies that were either observational (i.e. comparing non-manipulated invaded and uninvaded sites) or experimental (i.e. removal or addition of target plants) were included where they explicitly mentioned the identity of the alien==. Plant communities Animal species

## Data analysis
- #method/chi_squared_test
- #method/random_effects_models
- #method/spearman

## Findings
- We examined standardized effect sizes of the raw data to test these potential biases and found that they were slightly negatively (Spearman r = )0.099) but significantly (P = 0.001) associated with sample size
- Averaged across all studies, there was considerable variability in the effect sizes (Qt = 2257.36, d.f. = 1039, P < 0.0001) ranging over 5 orders of magnitude
- Mean effect sizes differed significantly among the impact types examined (Qb = 316.78, d.f. = 23, P = 0.001) not only in magnitude but also in direction (Figs 1 and 2; Appendix S4)
- The mean effect size within impact types was also heterogeneous (Qw = 1940.57, d.f. = 1016, P < 0.0001; see Appendix S4 for Qt of each impact type)
- On average, invasion decreased litter decomposition by 15.6% but there was a significant heterogeneity among studies (Qt = 24.14, d.f. = 12, P = 0.02) with almost as many studies showing increases as decreases in litter decomposition due to invasion (Fig. 2)
- There were no significant differences in the mean effect sizes between studies conducted on islands and on the mainland (Table 2)

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- Following Rosenthal (1979), we estimated the fail-safe number, that is, the number of studies that would have to be added to change the results of the meta-analysis from significant to non-significant, to be 37 689. As this value is larger than 5N + 10 = 5215 where N = number of case studies in ==our dataset, we are confident that the observed results can be treated as a reliable estimate of the true effect== ([^Rosenberg_2005_a])
- This is contrary to what diversity-ecosystem functioning experiments would predict and supports the importance of sampling effects in the patterns observed in such studies ([^Cardinale_et+al_2006_a]). Experimental work has shown that a strong invader can essentially reverse the positive diversity– productivity relationship in a manner ==consistent to what we have found== ([^Zavaleta_2004_a]; [^Maron_2008_a])

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- Indeed, compared with corresponding mainland ecosystems, islands often harbour more alien species ([^Lonsdale_1999_a]) and individual alien plants can often be more widespread ([^Gimeno_et+al_2006_a]). This might suggest greater impacts but ==our results indicate that the magnitude of the impact is not significantly greater than in mainland ecosystems and imply that invasion success does not necessarily translate into greater impacts at a local scale== ([^Parker_et+al_1999_a])

## Contributions
- In conclusion, our analyses have highlighted that alien plants pose significant impacts at the species, community and ecosystem level. Current understanding of invasive plant impacts is restricted to relatively few dominant alien species ([^Pysek_et+al_2008_a]). However, possibly because our database had different representation of alien plant life forms and ecosystems, the magnitude of the impacts was very variable and even for a given impact type, the direction of the ecological change was context-dependent. Our quantitative approach to value impacts could be further developed as the basis for scoring alien species and recipient ecosystems for risk assessment of invasions ([^Nentwig_et+al_2009_a]). We hope this article helps to re-invigorate this area of research by highlighting the association among impacts at several levels of ecological complexity and also the links between invasion success and invasion impacts.

## Future work
- Additional experiments are needed before we can make generalizations about the nature of this relationship ([^Parker_et+al_1999_a]; [^Levine_et+al_2003_a]). This topic remains at the core of whether the impact of alien species is related to their ecological success.

## Data and code
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version of this article: Appendix S1 List of studies for meta-analysis on alien plant species impact on species, communities and ecosystems
- Additional Supporting Information may be found in the online version


## References
[^Allison_et+al_2006_a]: Allison, S.D., Nielsen, C. & Hughes, R.F. (2006). Elevated enzyme activities in soils under the invasive nitrogen-fixing tree Falcataria moluccana. Soil Biol. Biochem., 38, 1537–1544. [[Allison_et+al_ElevatedEnzymeActivitiesSoilsUnder_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Nielsen%2C%20C.%20Hughes%2C%20R.F.%20Elevated%20enzyme%20activities%20in%20soils%20under%20the%20invasive%20nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20Falcataria%20moluccana%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Nielsen%2C%20C.%20Hughes%2C%20R.F.%20Elevated%20enzyme%20activities%20in%20soils%20under%20the%20invasive%20nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20Falcataria%20moluccana%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Nielsen%2C%20C.%20Hughes%2C%20R.F.%20Elevated%20enzyme%20activities%20in%20soils%20under%20the%20invasive%20nitrogen-fixing%20tree%20Falcataria%20moluccana%202006)

[^Andreu_et+al_2009_a]: Andreu, J., Vila, M. & Hulme, P.E. (2009). An assessment of stakeholder perceptions and management of alien plants in Spain. Environ. Manag., 43, 1244– 1255. [[Andreu_et+al_AssessmentStakeholderPerceptionsManagementAlien_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Andreu%2C%20J.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20An%20assessment%20of%20stakeholder%20perceptions%20and%20management%20of%20alien%20plants%20in%20Spain%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Andreu%2C%20J.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20An%20assessment%20of%20stakeholder%20perceptions%20and%20management%20of%20alien%20plants%20in%20Spain%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Andreu%2C%20J.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20An%20assessment%20of%20stakeholder%20perceptions%20and%20management%20of%20alien%20plants%20in%20Spain%202009)

[^Belnap_et+al_2005_a]: Belnap, J., Phillips, S.L., Sherrod, S.K. & Moldenke, A. (2005). Soil biota can change after exotic plant invasion: does this affect ecosystem processes? Ecology, 86, 3007–3017. [[Belnap_et+al_SoilBiotaChangeAfterExotic_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Belnap%2C%20J.%20Phillips%2C%20S.L.%20Sherrod%2C%20S.K.%20Moldenke%2C%20A.%20Soil%20biota%20can%20change%20after%20exotic%20plant%20invasion%3A%20does%20this%20affect%20ecosystem%20processes%3F%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Belnap%2C%20J.%20Phillips%2C%20S.L.%20Sherrod%2C%20S.K.%20Moldenke%2C%20A.%20Soil%20biota%20can%20change%20after%20exotic%20plant%20invasion%3A%20does%20this%20affect%20ecosystem%20processes%3F%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Belnap%2C%20J.%20Phillips%2C%20S.L.%20Sherrod%2C%20S.K.%20Moldenke%2C%20A.%20Soil%20biota%20can%20change%20after%20exotic%20plant%20invasion%3A%20does%20this%20affect%20ecosystem%20processes%3F%202005)

[^Cardinale_et+al_2006_a]: Cardinale, B.J., Srivastava, D.S., Duffy, J.E., Wright, J.P., Downing, A.L., Sankaran, M. et al. (2006). Effects of biodiversity on the functioning of trophic groups and ecosystems. Nature, 443, 989–992. [[Cardinale_et+al_EffectsBiodiversityFunctioningTrophicGroups_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cardinale%2C%20B.J.%20Srivastava%2C%20D.S.%20Duffy%2C%20J.E.%20Wright%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20biodiversity%20on%20the%20functioning%20of%20trophic%20groups%20and%20ecosystems%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cardinale%2C%20B.J.%20Srivastava%2C%20D.S.%20Duffy%2C%20J.E.%20Wright%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20biodiversity%20on%20the%20functioning%20of%20trophic%20groups%20and%20ecosystems%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cardinale%2C%20B.J.%20Srivastava%2C%20D.S.%20Duffy%2C%20J.E.%20Wright%2C%20J.P.%20Effects%20of%20biodiversity%20on%20the%20functioning%20of%20trophic%20groups%20and%20ecosystems%202006)

[^Croll_et+al_2005_a]: Croll, D.A., Maron, J.L., Estes, J.A., Danner, E.M. & Byrd, G.V. (2005). Introduced predators transform subarctic islands from grassland to tundra. Science, 307, 1959– 1961. [[Croll_et+al_IntroducedPredatorsTransformSubarcticIslands_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Croll%2C%20D.A.%20Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Estes%2C%20J.A.%20Danner%2C%20E.M.%20Introduced%20predators%20transform%20subarctic%20islands%20from%20grassland%20to%20tundra%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Croll%2C%20D.A.%20Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Estes%2C%20J.A.%20Danner%2C%20E.M.%20Introduced%20predators%20transform%20subarctic%20islands%20from%20grassland%20to%20tundra%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Croll%2C%20D.A.%20Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Estes%2C%20J.A.%20Danner%2C%20E.M.%20Introduced%20predators%20transform%20subarctic%20islands%20from%20grassland%20to%20tundra%202005)

[^Daehler_2003_a]: Daehler, C.C. (2003). Performance comparisons of co-occurring native and alien invasive plants: Implications for conservation and restoration. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst., 34, 183–211. [[Daehler_PerformanceComparisonsoccurringNativeAlien_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Daehler%2C%20C.C.%20Performance%20comparisons%20of%20co-occurring%20native%20and%20alien%20invasive%20plants%3A%20Implications%20for%20conservation%20and%20restoration%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Daehler%2C%20C.C.%20Performance%20comparisons%20of%20co-occurring%20native%20and%20alien%20invasive%20plants%3A%20Implications%20for%20conservation%20and%20restoration%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Daehler%2C%20C.C.%20Performance%20comparisons%20of%20co-occurring%20native%20and%20alien%20invasive%20plants%3A%20Implications%20for%20conservation%20and%20restoration%202003)

[^D_1994_a]: DÕAntonio, C. & Dudley, T. (1994). Biological invasions as agents of change on islands versus mainlands. In: Islands: Biological Diversity and Ecosystem Function (eds Vitousek, P.M., Loope, L. & Andersen, H.). Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pp. 103– 121. [[D_BiologicalInvasionsAgentsChangeIslands_1994]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D%C3%95Antonio%2C%20C.%20Dudley%2C%20T.%20Biological%20invasions%20as%20agents%20of%20change%20on%20islands%20versus%20mainlands%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=D%C3%95Antonio%2C%20C.%20Dudley%2C%20T.%20Biological%20invasions%20as%20agents%20of%20change%20on%20islands%20versus%20mainlands%201994) 

[^Diez_et+al_2009_a]: Diez, J.M., Williams, P.A., Randall, R.P., Sullivan, J.J., Hulme, P.E. & Duncan, R.P. (2009). Learning from failures: testing broad taxonomic hypotheses about plant naturalization. Ecol. Lett., 12, 1174–1183. [[Diez_et+al_LearningFromFailuresTestingBroad_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Diez%2C%20J.M.%20Williams%2C%20P.A.%20Randall%2C%20R.P.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.J.%20Learning%20from%20failures%3A%20testing%20broad%20taxonomic%20hypotheses%20about%20plant%20naturalization%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Diez%2C%20J.M.%20Williams%2C%20P.A.%20Randall%2C%20R.P.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.J.%20Learning%20from%20failures%3A%20testing%20broad%20taxonomic%20hypotheses%20about%20plant%20naturalization%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Diez%2C%20J.M.%20Williams%2C%20P.A.%20Randall%2C%20R.P.%20Sullivan%2C%20J.J.%20Learning%20from%20failures%3A%20testing%20broad%20taxonomic%20hypotheses%20about%20plant%20naturalization%202009)

[^Ehrenfeld_2003_a]: Ehrenfeld, J.G. (2003). Effect of exotic plant invasions on soil nutrient cycling processes. Ecosystems, 6, 503–523. [[Ehrenfeld_EffectExoticPlantInvasionsSoil_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Effect%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%20on%20soil%20nutrient%20cycling%20processes%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Effect%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%20on%20soil%20nutrient%20cycling%20processes%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Effect%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%20on%20soil%20nutrient%20cycling%20processes%202003)

[^Ehrenfeld_2010_a]: Ehrenfeld, J.G. (2010). Ecosystem consequences of biological invasions. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst., 41, 59–80. [[Ehrenfeld_EcosystemConsequencesBiologicalInvasions_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Ecosystem%20consequences%20of%20biological%20invasions%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Ecosystem%20consequences%20of%20biological%20invasions%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ehrenfeld%2C%20J.G.%20Ecosystem%20consequences%20of%20biological%20invasions%202010)

[^Gaertner_et+al_2009_a]: Gaertner, M., Breeyen, A.D., Hui, C. & Richardson, D.M. (2009). Impacts of alien plant invasions on species richness in Mediterranean-type ecosystems: a metaanalysis. Progr. Phys. Geogr., 33, 319–338. [[Gaertner_et+al_ImpactsAlienPlantInvasionsSpecies_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gaertner%2C%20M.%20Breeyen%2C%20A.D.%20Hui%2C%20C.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Impacts%20of%20alien%20plant%20invasions%20on%20species%20richness%20in%20Mediterranean-type%20ecosystems%3A%20a%20metaanalysis%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gaertner%2C%20M.%20Breeyen%2C%20A.D.%20Hui%2C%20C.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Impacts%20of%20alien%20plant%20invasions%20on%20species%20richness%20in%20Mediterranean-type%20ecosystems%3A%20a%20metaanalysis%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gaertner%2C%20M.%20Breeyen%2C%20A.D.%20Hui%2C%20C.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Impacts%20of%20alien%20plant%20invasions%20on%20species%20richness%20in%20Mediterranean-type%20ecosystems%3A%20a%20metaanalysis%202009)

[^Gerber_et+al_2008_a]: Gerber, E., Krebs, C., Murrell, C., Moretti, M., Rocklin, R. & Schaffner, U. (2008). Exotic invasive knotweeds (Fallopia spp.) negatively affect native plant and invertebrate assemblages in European riparian habitats. Biol. Cons., 141, 646– 654. [[Gerber_et+al_ExoticInvasiveKnotweedsfallopia_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gerber%2C%20E.%20Krebs%2C%20C.%20Murrell%2C%20C.%20Moretti%2C%20M.%20Exotic%20invasive%20knotweeds%20%28Fallopia%20spp.%29%20negatively%20affect%20native%20plant%20and%20invertebrate%20assemblages%20in%20European%20riparian%20habitats%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gerber%2C%20E.%20Krebs%2C%20C.%20Murrell%2C%20C.%20Moretti%2C%20M.%20Exotic%20invasive%20knotweeds%20%28Fallopia%20spp.%29%20negatively%20affect%20native%20plant%20and%20invertebrate%20assemblages%20in%20European%20riparian%20habitats%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gerber%2C%20E.%20Krebs%2C%20C.%20Murrell%2C%20C.%20Moretti%2C%20M.%20Exotic%20invasive%20knotweeds%20%28Fallopia%20spp.%29%20negatively%20affect%20native%20plant%20and%20invertebrate%20assemblages%20in%20European%20riparian%20habitats%202008)

[^Gimeno_et+al_2006_a]: Gimeno, I., Vila, M. & Hulme, P.E. (2006). Are islands more susceptible to plant invasion than continents? A test using Oxalis pes-caprae in the western Mediterranean. J. Biogeogr., 33, 1559–1565. [[Gimeno_et+al_IslandsMoreSusceptiblePlantInvasion_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Gimeno%2C%20I.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Are%20islands%20more%20susceptible%20to%20plant%20invasion%20than%20continents%3F%20A%20test%20using%20Oxalis%20pes-caprae%20in%20the%20western%20Mediterranean%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Gimeno%2C%20I.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Are%20islands%20more%20susceptible%20to%20plant%20invasion%20than%20continents%3F%20A%20test%20using%20Oxalis%20pes-caprae%20in%20the%20western%20Mediterranean%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Gimeno%2C%20I.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Are%20islands%20more%20susceptible%20to%20plant%20invasion%20than%20continents%3F%20A%20test%20using%20Oxalis%20pes-caprae%20in%20the%20western%20Mediterranean%202006)

[^de_Groot_et+al_2007_a]: de Groot, M., Kleijn, D. & Jogan, N. (2007). Species groups occupying different trophic levels respond differently to the invasion of semi-natural vegetation by Solidago canadensis. Biol. Cons., 136, 612–617. [[de_Groot_et+al_SpeciesGroupsOccupyingDifferentTrophic_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=de%20Groot%2C%20M.%20Kleijn%2C%20D.%20Jogan%2C%20N.%20Species%20groups%20occupying%20different%20trophic%20levels%20respond%20differently%20to%20the%20invasion%20of%20semi-natural%20vegetation%20by%20Solidago%20canadensis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=de%20Groot%2C%20M.%20Kleijn%2C%20D.%20Jogan%2C%20N.%20Species%20groups%20occupying%20different%20trophic%20levels%20respond%20differently%20to%20the%20invasion%20of%20semi-natural%20vegetation%20by%20Solidago%20canadensis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=de%20Groot%2C%20M.%20Kleijn%2C%20D.%20Jogan%2C%20N.%20Species%20groups%20occupying%20different%20trophic%20levels%20respond%20differently%20to%20the%20invasion%20of%20semi-natural%20vegetation%20by%20Solidago%20canadensis%202007)

[^Hejda_et+al_2009_a]: Hejda, M., Pysek, P. & Jarosık, V. (2009). Impact of invasive plants on the species richness, diversity and composition of invaded communities. J. Ecol., 97, 393– 403. [[Hejda_et+al_ImpactInvasivePlantsSpeciesRichness_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hejda%2C%20M.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Impact%20of%20invasive%20plants%20on%20the%20species%20richness%2C%20diversity%20and%20composition%20of%20invaded%20communities%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hejda%2C%20M.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Impact%20of%20invasive%20plants%20on%20the%20species%20richness%2C%20diversity%20and%20composition%20of%20invaded%20communities%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hejda%2C%20M.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Impact%20of%20invasive%20plants%20on%20the%20species%20richness%2C%20diversity%20and%20composition%20of%20invaded%20communities%202009)

[^Jeschke_2005_a]: Jeschke, J.M. & Strayer, D.L. (2005). Invasion success of vertebrates in Europe and North America. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 102, 7198–7202. [[Jeschke_InvasionSuccessVertebratesEuropeNorth_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Strayer%2C%20D.L.%20Invasion%20success%20of%20vertebrates%20in%20Europe%20and%20North%20America%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Strayer%2C%20D.L.%20Invasion%20success%20of%20vertebrates%20in%20Europe%20and%20North%20America%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Strayer%2C%20D.L.%20Invasion%20success%20of%20vertebrates%20in%20Europe%20and%20North%20America%202005)

[^Leprieur_et+al_2008_a]: LePrieur, F., Beauchard, O., Blanchet, S., Oberdorff, T. & Brosse, S. (2008). Fish invasions in the worldÕs river systems: when natural processes are blurred by human activities. PLoS Biol., 6, 404–410. [[Leprieur_et+al_FishInvasionsWorldõsRiverSystems_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=LePrieur%2C%20F.%20Beauchard%2C%20O.%20Blanchet%2C%20S.%20Oberdorff%2C%20T.%20Fish%20invasions%20in%20the%20world%C3%95s%20river%20systems%3A%20when%20natural%20processes%20are%20blurred%20by%20human%20activities%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=LePrieur%2C%20F.%20Beauchard%2C%20O.%20Blanchet%2C%20S.%20Oberdorff%2C%20T.%20Fish%20invasions%20in%20the%20world%C3%95s%20river%20systems%3A%20when%20natural%20processes%20are%20blurred%20by%20human%20activities%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=LePrieur%2C%20F.%20Beauchard%2C%20O.%20Blanchet%2C%20S.%20Oberdorff%2C%20T.%20Fish%20invasions%20in%20the%20world%C3%95s%20river%20systems%3A%20when%20natural%20processes%20are%20blurred%20by%20human%20activities%202008)

[^Levine_et+al_2003_a]: Levine, J.M., Vila, M., DÕAntonio, C.M., Dukes, J.S., Grigulis, K. & Lavorel, S. (2003). Mechanisms underlying the impact of exotic plant invasions. Proc. R. Soc. London, Serie B, 270, 775–781. [[Levine_et+al_MechanismsUnderlyingImpactExoticPlant_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20D%C3%95Antonio%2C%20C.M.%20Dukes%2C%20J.S.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20the%20impact%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20D%C3%95Antonio%2C%20C.M.%20Dukes%2C%20J.S.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20the%20impact%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Levine%2C%20J.M.%20Vila%2C%20M.%20D%C3%95Antonio%2C%20C.M.%20Dukes%2C%20J.S.%20Mechanisms%20underlying%20the%20impact%20of%20exotic%20plant%20invasions%202003)

[^Liao_et+al_2008_a]: Liao, C., Peng, R., Luo, Y., Zhou, X., Wu, X., Fang, C. et al. (2008). Altered ecosystem carbon and nitrogen cycles by plant invasion: a meta-analysis. New Phytol., 177, 706–714. [[Liao_et+al_AlteredEcosystemCarbonNitrogenCycles_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Liao%2C%20C.%20Peng%2C%20R.%20Luo%2C%20Y.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Altered%20ecosystem%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20cycles%20by%20plant%20invasion%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Liao%2C%20C.%20Peng%2C%20R.%20Luo%2C%20Y.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Altered%20ecosystem%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20cycles%20by%20plant%20invasion%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Liao%2C%20C.%20Peng%2C%20R.%20Luo%2C%20Y.%20Zhou%2C%20X.%20Altered%20ecosystem%20carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20cycles%20by%20plant%20invasion%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202008)

[^Lonsdale_1999_a]: Lonsdale, W.M. (1999). Global patterns of plant invasions and the concept of invasibility. Ecology, 80, 1522–1536. [[Lonsdale_GlobalPatternsPlantInvasionsConcept_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibility%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibility%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Global%20patterns%20of%20plant%20invasions%20and%20the%20concept%20of%20invasibility%201999)

[^Maron_2008_a]: Maron, J.L. & Marler, M. (2008). Effects of native species diversity and resource additions on invader impact. Am. Nat., 172, S18–S33. [[Maron_EffectsNativeSpeciesDiversityResource_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Effects%20of%20native%20species%20diversity%20and%20resource%20additions%20on%20invader%20impact%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Effects%20of%20native%20species%20diversity%20and%20resource%20additions%20on%20invader%20impact%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maron%2C%20J.L.%20Marler%2C%20M.%20Effects%20of%20native%20species%20diversity%20and%20resource%20additions%20on%20invader%20impact%202008)

[^Meffin_et+al_2010_a]: Meffin, R., Miller, A.L., Hulme, P.E. & Duncan, R.P. (2010). Experimental introduction of the alien weed Hieracium lepidulum reveals no significant impact on montane plant communities in New Zealand. Diversity Distrib., 16, 804–815. [[Meffin_et+al_ExperimentalIntroductionAlienWeedHieracium_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Meffin%2C%20R.%20Miller%2C%20A.L.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Duncan%2C%20R.P.%20Experimental%20introduction%20of%20the%20alien%20weed%20Hieracium%20lepidulum%20reveals%20no%20significant%20impact%20on%20montane%20plant%20communities%20in%20New%20Zealand%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Meffin%2C%20R.%20Miller%2C%20A.L.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Duncan%2C%20R.P.%20Experimental%20introduction%20of%20the%20alien%20weed%20Hieracium%20lepidulum%20reveals%20no%20significant%20impact%20on%20montane%20plant%20communities%20in%20New%20Zealand%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Meffin%2C%20R.%20Miller%2C%20A.L.%20Hulme%2C%20P.E.%20Duncan%2C%20R.P.%20Experimental%20introduction%20of%20the%20alien%20weed%20Hieracium%20lepidulum%20reveals%20no%20significant%20impact%20on%20montane%20plant%20communities%20in%20New%20Zealand%202010)

[^Nentwig_et+al_2009_a]: Nentwig, W., Kuhnel, E. & Bacher, S. (2009). A generic impact-scoring system applied to alien mammals in Europe. Cons. Biol., 24, 302–311. [[Nentwig_et+al_GenericImpactscoringSystemAppliedAlien_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Nentwig%2C%20W.%20Kuhnel%2C%20E.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20A%20generic%20impact-scoring%20system%20applied%20to%20alien%20mammals%20in%20Europe.%20Cons%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Nentwig%2C%20W.%20Kuhnel%2C%20E.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20A%20generic%20impact-scoring%20system%20applied%20to%20alien%20mammals%20in%20Europe.%20Cons%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Nentwig%2C%20W.%20Kuhnel%2C%20E.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20A%20generic%20impact-scoring%20system%20applied%20to%20alien%20mammals%20in%20Europe.%20Cons%202009)

[^Palmer_1999_a]: Palmer, A.R. (1999). Detecting publication bias in meta-analysis: a case study of fluctuating asymmetry and sexual selection. Amer. Nat., 154, 220–233. [[Palmer_DetectingPublicationBiasMetaanalysisCase_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Palmer%2C%20A.R.%20Detecting%20publication%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20a%20case%20study%20of%20fluctuating%20asymmetry%20and%20sexual%20selection%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Palmer%2C%20A.R.%20Detecting%20publication%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20a%20case%20study%20of%20fluctuating%20asymmetry%20and%20sexual%20selection%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Palmer%2C%20A.R.%20Detecting%20publication%20bias%20in%20meta-analysis%3A%20a%20case%20study%20of%20fluctuating%20asymmetry%20and%20sexual%20selection%201999)

[^Parker_et+al_1999_a]: Parker, I.M., Simberloff, D., Lonsdale, W.M., Goodell, K., Wonham, M., Kareiva, P.M. et al. (1999). Impact: toward a framework for understanding the ecological effects of invaders. Biol. Invas., 1, 3–19. [[Parker_et+al_ImpactTowardFrameworkUnderstandingEcological_1999]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Parker%2C%20I.M.%20Simberloff%2C%20D.%20Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Goodell%2C%20K.%20Impact%3A%20toward%20a%20framework%20for%20understanding%20the%20ecological%20effects%20of%20invaders%201999) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Parker%2C%20I.M.%20Simberloff%2C%20D.%20Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Goodell%2C%20K.%20Impact%3A%20toward%20a%20framework%20for%20understanding%20the%20ecological%20effects%20of%20invaders%201999) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Parker%2C%20I.M.%20Simberloff%2C%20D.%20Lonsdale%2C%20W.M.%20Goodell%2C%20K.%20Impact%3A%20toward%20a%20framework%20for%20understanding%20the%20ecological%20effects%20of%20invaders%201999)

[^Pearson_2009_a]: Pearson, D.A. (2009). Invasive plant architecture alters trophic interactions by changing predator abundance and behaviour. Oecologia, 159, 549–558. [[Pearson_InvasivePlantArchitectureAltersTrophic_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pearson%2C%20D.A.%20Invasive%20plant%20architecture%20alters%20trophic%20interactions%20by%20changing%20predator%20abundance%20and%20behaviour%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pearson%2C%20D.A.%20Invasive%20plant%20architecture%20alters%20trophic%20interactions%20by%20changing%20predator%20abundance%20and%20behaviour%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pearson%2C%20D.A.%20Invasive%20plant%20architecture%20alters%20trophic%20interactions%20by%20changing%20predator%20abundance%20and%20behaviour%202009)

[^Pejchar_2009_a]: Pejchar, L. & Mooney, H.A. (2009). Invasive species, ecosystem services and human well-being. Trends Ecol. Evol., 24, 497–504. [[Pejchar_InvasiveSpeciesEcosystemServicesHuman_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pejchar%2C%20L.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Invasive%20species%2C%20ecosystem%20services%20and%20human%20well-being%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pejchar%2C%20L.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Invasive%20species%2C%20ecosystem%20services%20and%20human%20well-being%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pejchar%2C%20L.%20Mooney%2C%20H.A.%20Invasive%20species%2C%20ecosystem%20services%20and%20human%20well-being%202009)

[^Powell_et+al_2011_a]: Powell, K.I., Chase, J.M. & Knight, T.M. (2011). A synthesis of plant invasion effects on biodiversity across spatial scales. Am. J. Bot., 98, 539–548. [[Powell_et+al_SynthesisPlantInvasionEffectsBiodiversity_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Powell%2C%20K.I.%20Chase%2C%20J.M.%20Knight%2C%20T.M.%20A%20synthesis%20of%20plant%20invasion%20effects%20on%20biodiversity%20across%20spatial%20scales%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Powell%2C%20K.I.%20Chase%2C%20J.M.%20Knight%2C%20T.M.%20A%20synthesis%20of%20plant%20invasion%20effects%20on%20biodiversity%20across%20spatial%20scales%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Powell%2C%20K.I.%20Chase%2C%20J.M.%20Knight%2C%20T.M.%20A%20synthesis%20of%20plant%20invasion%20effects%20on%20biodiversity%20across%20spatial%20scales%202011)

[^Pysek_2007_a]: Pysek, P. & Richardson, D.M. (2007). Traits associated with invasiveness in alien plants: where do we stand? In: Biological Invasions, Ecological Studies 193 (ed. Nentwig, W.). Springer-Verlag, Berlin & Heidelberg, pp. 97–125. [[Pysek_TraitsAssociatedWithInvasivenessAlien_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Traits%20associated%20with%20invasiveness%20in%20alien%20plants%3A%20where%20do%20we%20stand%3F%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Traits%20associated%20with%20invasiveness%20in%20alien%20plants%3A%20where%20do%20we%20stand%3F%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Traits%20associated%20with%20invasiveness%20in%20alien%20plants%3A%20where%20do%20we%20stand%3F%202007)

[^Pysek_et+al_2008_a]: Pysek, P., Richardson, D.M., Pergl, J., Jarosık, V., Sixtova, Z. & Weber, E. (2008). Geographical and taxonomic biases in invasion ecology. Trends Ecol. Evol., 23, 237–244. [[Pysek_et+al_GeographicalTaxonomicBiasesInvasionEcology_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Pergl%2C%20J.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Geographical%20and%20taxonomic%20biases%20in%20invasion%20ecology%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Pergl%2C%20J.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Geographical%20and%20taxonomic%20biases%20in%20invasion%20ecology%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Richardson%2C%20D.M.%20Pergl%2C%20J.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Geographical%20and%20taxonomic%20biases%20in%20invasion%20ecology%202008)

[^Pysek_et+al_2010_a]: Pysek, P., Bacher, S., Chytry, M., Jarosık, V., Wild, J., Celesti-Grapow, L. et al. (2010). Contrasting patterns in the invasions of European terrestrial and freshwater habitats by alien plants, insects and vertebrales. Glob. Ecol. Biogeogr., 19, 319–331. [[Pysek_et+al_ContrastingPatternsInvasionsEuropeanTerrestrial_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20Chytry%2C%20M.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Contrasting%20patterns%20in%20the%20invasions%20of%20European%20terrestrial%20and%20freshwater%20habitats%20by%20alien%20plants%2C%20insects%20and%20vertebrales%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20Chytry%2C%20M.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Contrasting%20patterns%20in%20the%20invasions%20of%20European%20terrestrial%20and%20freshwater%20habitats%20by%20alien%20plants%2C%20insects%20and%20vertebrales%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Pysek%2C%20P.%20Bacher%2C%20S.%20Chytry%2C%20M.%20Jaros%C4%B1k%2C%20V.%20Contrasting%20patterns%20in%20the%20invasions%20of%20European%20terrestrial%20and%20freshwater%20habitats%20by%20alien%20plants%2C%20insects%20and%20vertebrales%202010)

[^Rey-Benayas_et+al_2009_a]: Rey-Benayas, J.M., Newton, A.C., Diaz, A. & Bullock, J.M. (2009). Enhancement of biodiversity and ecosystem services by ecological restoration: a meta-analysis. Science, 325, 1121–1124. [[Rey-Benayas_et+al_EnhancementBiodiversityEcosystemServicesEcological_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rey-Benayas%2C%20J.M.%20Newton%2C%20A.C.%20Diaz%2C%20A.%20Bullock%2C%20J.M.%20Enhancement%20of%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20by%20ecological%20restoration%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rey-Benayas%2C%20J.M.%20Newton%2C%20A.C.%20Diaz%2C%20A.%20Bullock%2C%20J.M.%20Enhancement%20of%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20by%20ecological%20restoration%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rey-Benayas%2C%20J.M.%20Newton%2C%20A.C.%20Diaz%2C%20A.%20Bullock%2C%20J.M.%20Enhancement%20of%20biodiversity%20and%20ecosystem%20services%20by%20ecological%20restoration%3A%20a%20meta-analysis%202009)

[^Rosenberg_2005_a]: Rosenberg, M.S. (2005). The file-drawer problem revisited: a general weighted method for calculating fail-safe numbers in meta-analysis. Evolution, 59, 464–468. [[Rosenberg_FiledrawerProblemRevisitedGeneralWeighted_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20The%20file-drawer%20problem%20revisited%3A%20a%20general%20weighted%20method%20for%20calculating%20fail-safe%20numbers%20in%20meta-analysis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20The%20file-drawer%20problem%20revisited%3A%20a%20general%20weighted%20method%20for%20calculating%20fail-safe%20numbers%20in%20meta-analysis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20The%20file-drawer%20problem%20revisited%3A%20a%20general%20weighted%20method%20for%20calculating%20fail-safe%20numbers%20in%20meta-analysis%202005)

[^Rosenberg_et+al_2000_a]: Rosenberg, M.S., Adams, D.C. & Gurevitch, J. (2000). Metawin: Statistical Software for Meta-Analysis. Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, MA. [[Rosenberg_et+al_MetawinStatisticalSoftwareMetaanalysisSinauer_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20Adams%2C%20D.C.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Metawin%3A%20Statistical%20Software%20for%20Meta-Analysis.%20Sinauer%20Associates%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosenberg%2C%20M.S.%20Adams%2C%20D.C.%20Gurevitch%2C%20J.%20Metawin%3A%20Statistical%20Software%20for%20Meta-Analysis.%20Sinauer%20Associates%202000) 

[^Rosenthal_1979_a]: Rosenthal, R. (1979). The ‘‘file-drawer problem’’ and tolerance for null results. Psychol. Bull., 86, 638–641. [[Rosenthal_filedrawerProblemToleranceNullResults_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Rosenthal%2C%20R.%20The%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98file-drawer%20problem%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20and%20tolerance%20for%20null%20results%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Rosenthal%2C%20R.%20The%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98file-drawer%20problem%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20and%20tolerance%20for%20null%20results%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Rosenthal%2C%20R.%20The%20%E2%80%98%E2%80%98file-drawer%20problem%E2%80%99%E2%80%99%20and%20tolerance%20for%20null%20results%201979)

[^Sax_2008_a]: Sax, D.F. & Gaines, S.D. (2008). Species invasions and extinction: the future of native biodiversity on islands. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 105, 11409–11497. [[Sax_SpeciesInvasionsExtinctionFutureNative_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sax%2C%20D.F.%20Gaines%2C%20S.D.%20Species%20invasions%20and%20extinction%3A%20the%20future%20of%20native%20biodiversity%20on%20islands%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sax%2C%20D.F.%20Gaines%2C%20S.D.%20Species%20invasions%20and%20extinction%3A%20the%20future%20of%20native%20biodiversity%20on%20islands%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sax%2C%20D.F.%20Gaines%2C%20S.D.%20Species%20invasions%20and%20extinction%3A%20the%20future%20of%20native%20biodiversity%20on%20islands%202008)

[^Steward_2010_a]: Steward, G. (2010). Meta-analysis in applied ecology. Biol. Lett., 6, 78–81. [[Steward_MetaanalysisAppliedEcology_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Steward%2C%20G.%20Meta-analysis%20in%20applied%20ecology%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Steward%2C%20G.%20Meta-analysis%20in%20applied%20ecology%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Steward%2C%20G.%20Meta-analysis%20in%20applied%20ecology%202010)

[^Tylianakis_et+al_2008_a]: Tylianakis, J.M., Didham, R.K., Bascompte, J. & Wardle, D.A. (2008). Global change and species interactions in terrestrial ecosystems. Ecol. Lett., 11, 1–13. [[Tylianakis_et+al_GlobalChangeSpeciesInteractionsTerrestrial_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tylianakis%2C%20J.M.%20Didham%2C%20R.K.%20Bascompte%2C%20J.%20Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Global%20change%20and%20species%20interactions%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tylianakis%2C%20J.M.%20Didham%2C%20R.K.%20Bascompte%2C%20J.%20Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Global%20change%20and%20species%20interactions%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tylianakis%2C%20J.M.%20Didham%2C%20R.K.%20Bascompte%2C%20J.%20Wardle%2C%20D.A.%20Global%20change%20and%20species%20interactions%20in%20terrestrial%20ecosystems%202008)

[^Valtonen_et+al_2006_a]: Valtonen, A., Jantunen, J. & Saarinen, K. (2006). Flora and lepidoptera fauna adversely affected by invasive Lupinus polyphyllus along road verges. Biol. Cons., 133, 389–396. [[Valtonen_et+al_FloraLepidopteraFaunaAdverselyAffected_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Valtonen%2C%20A.%20Jantunen%2C%20J.%20Saarinen%2C%20K.%20Flora%20and%20lepidoptera%20fauna%20adversely%20affected%20by%20invasive%20Lupinus%20polyphyllus%20along%20road%20verges%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Valtonen%2C%20A.%20Jantunen%2C%20J.%20Saarinen%2C%20K.%20Flora%20and%20lepidoptera%20fauna%20adversely%20affected%20by%20invasive%20Lupinus%20polyphyllus%20along%20road%20verges%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Valtonen%2C%20A.%20Jantunen%2C%20J.%20Saarinen%2C%20K.%20Flora%20and%20lepidoptera%20fauna%20adversely%20affected%20by%20invasive%20Lupinus%20polyphyllus%20along%20road%20verges%202006)

[^van_Kleunen_et+al_2010_a]: Van Kleunen, M., Dawson, M., Schaepfer, D., Jeschke, J.M. & Fischer, M. (2010a). Are invaders different? A conceptual framework of comparative approaches for assessing determinants of invasiveness. Ecol. Lett., 13, 947–958. [[van_Kleunen_et+al_InvadersDifferentAConceptualFramework_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Dawson%2C%20M.%20Schaepfer%2C%20D.%20Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Are%20invaders%20different%3F%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20of%20comparative%20approaches%20for%20assessing%20determinants%20of%20invasiveness%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Dawson%2C%20M.%20Schaepfer%2C%20D.%20Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Are%20invaders%20different%3F%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20of%20comparative%20approaches%20for%20assessing%20determinants%20of%20invasiveness%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Dawson%2C%20M.%20Schaepfer%2C%20D.%20Jeschke%2C%20J.M.%20Are%20invaders%20different%3F%20A%20conceptual%20framework%20of%20comparative%20approaches%20for%20assessing%20determinants%20of%20invasiveness%202010)

[^van_Kleunen_et+al_2010_a]: Van Kleunen, M., Weber, E. & Fischer, M. (2010b). A meta-analysis of trait differences between invasive and non-invasive plant species. Ecol. Lett., 13, 235– 245. [[van_Kleunen_et+al_MetaanalysisTraitDifferencesBetweenInvasive_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Weber%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20M.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20trait%20differences%20between%20invasive%20and%20non-invasive%20plant%20species%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Weber%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20M.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20trait%20differences%20between%20invasive%20and%20non-invasive%20plant%20species%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Van%20Kleunen%2C%20M.%20Weber%2C%20E.%20Fischer%2C%20M.%20A%20meta-analysis%20of%20trait%20differences%20between%20invasive%20and%20non-invasive%20plant%20species%202010)

[^Vila_2004_a]: Vila, M. & Weiner, J. (2004). Are invasive plant species better competitors than native plant species? Evidence from pair-wise experiments. Oikos, 105, 229–238. [[Vila_InvasivePlantSpeciesBetterCompetitors_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Weiner%2C%20J.%20Are%20invasive%20plant%20species%20better%20competitors%20than%20native%20plant%20species%3F%20Evidence%20from%20pair-wise%20experiments%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vila%2C%20M.%20Weiner%2C%20J.%20Are%20invasive%20plant%20species%20better%20competitors%20than%20native%20plant%20species%3F%20Evidence%20from%20pair-wise%20experiments%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Weiner%2C%20J.%20Are%20invasive%20plant%20species%20better%20competitors%20than%20native%20plant%20species%3F%20Evidence%20from%20pair-wise%20experiments%202004)

[^Vila_et+al_2004_b]: Vila, M., Williamson, M. & Lonsdale, M. (2004). Competition experiments in alien weeds with crops: lessons for measuring invasive impact? Biol. Invas., 6, 59–69. [[Vila_et+al_CompetitionExperimentsAlienWeedsWith_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Williamson%2C%20M.%20Lonsdale%2C%20M.%20Competition%20experiments%20in%20alien%20weeds%20with%20crops%3A%20lessons%20for%20measuring%20invasive%20impact%3F%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vila%2C%20M.%20Williamson%2C%20M.%20Lonsdale%2C%20M.%20Competition%20experiments%20in%20alien%20weeds%20with%20crops%3A%20lessons%20for%20measuring%20invasive%20impact%3F%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Williamson%2C%20M.%20Lonsdale%2C%20M.%20Competition%20experiments%20in%20alien%20weeds%20with%20crops%3A%20lessons%20for%20measuring%20invasive%20impact%3F%202004)

[^Vila_et+al_2006_a]: Vila, M., Tessier, M., Suehs, C.M., Brundu, G., Carta, L., Galanidis, A. et al. (2006). Local and regional assessment of the impacts of plant invaders on vegetation structure and soil properties of Mediterranean islands. J. Biogeogr., 33, 853–861. [[Vila_et+al_LocalRegionalAssessmentImpactsPlant_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Tessier%2C%20M.%20Suehs%2C%20C.M.%20Brundu%2C%20G.%20Local%20and%20regional%20assessment%20of%20the%20impacts%20of%20plant%20invaders%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20soil%20properties%20of%20Mediterranean%20islands%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vila%2C%20M.%20Tessier%2C%20M.%20Suehs%2C%20C.M.%20Brundu%2C%20G.%20Local%20and%20regional%20assessment%20of%20the%20impacts%20of%20plant%20invaders%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20soil%20properties%20of%20Mediterranean%20islands%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Tessier%2C%20M.%20Suehs%2C%20C.M.%20Brundu%2C%20G.%20Local%20and%20regional%20assessment%20of%20the%20impacts%20of%20plant%20invaders%20on%20vegetation%20structure%20and%20soil%20properties%20of%20Mediterranean%20islands%202006)

[^Vila_et+al_2010_a]: Vila, M., Basnou, C., Pysek, P., Josefsson, M., Genovesi, P., Gollasch, S. et al. (2010). How well do we understand the impacts of alien species on ecosystem services? A pan-European cross-taxa assessment. Front. Ecol. Environ., 8, 135– 144. [[Vila_et+al_WellUnderstandImpactsAlienSpecies_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Basnou%2C%20C.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Josefsson%2C%20M.%20How%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20impacts%20of%20alien%20species%20on%20ecosystem%20services%3F%20A%20pan-European%20cross-taxa%20assessment%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vila%2C%20M.%20Basnou%2C%20C.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Josefsson%2C%20M.%20How%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20impacts%20of%20alien%20species%20on%20ecosystem%20services%3F%20A%20pan-European%20cross-taxa%20assessment%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vila%2C%20M.%20Basnou%2C%20C.%20Pysek%2C%20P.%20Josefsson%2C%20M.%20How%20well%20do%20we%20understand%20the%20impacts%20of%20alien%20species%20on%20ecosystem%20services%3F%20A%20pan-European%20cross-taxa%20assessment%202010)

[^Vitousek_1990_a]: Vitousek, P.M. (1990). Biological invasions and ecosystem processes: towards an integration of population biology and ecosystem studies. Oikos, 57, 7–13. [[Vitousek_BiologicalInvasionsEcosystemProcessesTowards_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Biological%20invasions%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%3A%20towards%20an%20integration%20of%20population%20biology%20and%20ecosystem%20studies%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Biological%20invasions%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%3A%20towards%20an%20integration%20of%20population%20biology%20and%20ecosystem%20studies%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Biological%20invasions%20and%20ecosystem%20processes%3A%20towards%20an%20integration%20of%20population%20biology%20and%20ecosystem%20studies%201990)

[^Vitousek_et+al_1987_a]: Vitousek, P.M., Walker, L., Whiteaker, L., Mueller-Dombois, D. & Matson, P. (1987). Biological invasion by Myrica faya alters ecosystem development in Hawaii. Science, 238, 802–804. [[Vitousek_et+al_BiologicalInvasionMyricaFayaAlters_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.%20Whiteaker%2C%20L.%20Mueller-Dombois%2C%20D.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20alters%20ecosystem%20development%20in%20Hawaii%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.%20Whiteaker%2C%20L.%20Mueller-Dombois%2C%20D.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20alters%20ecosystem%20development%20in%20Hawaii%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Vitousek%2C%20P.M.%20Walker%2C%20L.%20Whiteaker%2C%20L.%20Mueller-Dombois%2C%20D.%20Biological%20invasion%20by%20Myrica%20faya%20alters%20ecosystem%20development%20in%20Hawaii%201987)

[^Wang_1998_a]: Wang, M.C. & Bushman, B.J. (1998). Using the normal quartile plot to explore meta-analytic data sets. Psychol. Methods, 3, 46–54. [[Wang_UsingNormalQuartilePlotExplore_1998]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20M.C.%20Bushman%2C%20B.J.%20Using%20the%20normal%20quartile%20plot%20to%20explore%20meta-analytic%20data%20sets%201998) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20M.C.%20Bushman%2C%20B.J.%20Using%20the%20normal%20quartile%20plot%20to%20explore%20meta-analytic%20data%20sets%201998) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20M.C.%20Bushman%2C%20B.J.%20Using%20the%20normal%20quartile%20plot%20to%20explore%20meta-analytic%20data%20sets%201998)

[^Weber_2003_a]: Weber, E. (2003). Invasive Plant Species of the World: A Reference Guide to Environmental Weeds. CAB International Publishing, Wallingford. [[Weber_InvasivePlantSpeciesWorldReference_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weber%2C%20E.%20Invasive%20Plant%20Species%20of%20the%20World%3A%20A%20Reference%20Guide%20to%20Environmental%20Weeds%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Weber%2C%20E.%20Invasive%20Plant%20Species%20of%20the%20World%3A%20A%20Reference%20Guide%20to%20Environmental%20Weeds%202003) 

[^Winfree_et+al_2009_a]: Winfree, R., Aguilar, R., Vazquez, D.P., LeBuhn, G. & Aizen, M.A. (2009). A metaanalysis of beesÕ responses to anthropogenic disturbance. Ecology, 90, 2068–2076. [[Winfree_et+al_MetaanalysisBeesõResponsesAnthropogenicDisturbance_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Winfree%2C%20R.%20Aguilar%2C%20R.%20Vazquez%2C%20D.P.%20LeBuhn%2C%20G.%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20bees%C3%95%20responses%20to%20anthropogenic%20disturbance%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Winfree%2C%20R.%20Aguilar%2C%20R.%20Vazquez%2C%20D.P.%20LeBuhn%2C%20G.%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20bees%C3%95%20responses%20to%20anthropogenic%20disturbance%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Winfree%2C%20R.%20Aguilar%2C%20R.%20Vazquez%2C%20D.P.%20LeBuhn%2C%20G.%20A%20metaanalysis%20of%20bees%C3%95%20responses%20to%20anthropogenic%20disturbance%202009)

[^Zavaleta_2004_a]: Zavaleta, E.S. & Hulvey, K.B. (2004). Realistic species losses disproportionately reduce grassland resistance to biological invaders. Science, 306, 1175–1177. [[Zavaleta_RealisticSpeciesLossesDisproportionatelyReduce_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zavaleta%2C%20E.S.%20Hulvey%2C%20K.B.%20Realistic%20species%20losses%20disproportionately%20reduce%20grassland%20resistance%20to%20biological%20invaders%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zavaleta%2C%20E.S.%20Hulvey%2C%20K.B.%20Realistic%20species%20losses%20disproportionately%20reduce%20grassland%20resistance%20to%20biological%20invaders%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zavaleta%2C%20E.S.%20Hulvey%2C%20K.B.%20Realistic%20species%20losses%20disproportionately%20reduce%20grassland%20resistance%20to%20biological%20invaders%202004)

[^As_0000_a]: As a service to our authors and readers, this journal provides supporting information supplied by the authors. Such materials are peer-reviewed and may be re-organized for online delivery, but are not copy-edited or typeset. Technical support issues arising from supporting information (other than missing files) should be addressed to the authors. [[As_ServiceAuthorsReadersThisJournal_0000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=As%20a%20service%20to%20our%20authors%20and%20readers%20this%20journal%20provides%20supporting%20information%20supplied%20by%20the%20authors%20Such%20materials%20are%20peerreviewed%20and%20may%20be%20reorganized%20for%20online%20delivery%20but%20are%20not%20copyedited%20or%20typeset%20Technical%20support%20issues%20arising%20from%20supporting%20information%20other%20than%20missing%20files%20should%20be%20addressed%20to%20the%20authors) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=As%20a%20service%20to%20our%20authors%20and%20readers%20this%20journal%20provides%20supporting%20information%20supplied%20by%20the%20authors%20Such%20materials%20are%20peerreviewed%20and%20may%20be%20reorganized%20for%20online%20delivery%20but%20are%20not%20copyedited%20or%20typeset%20Technical%20support%20issues%20arising%20from%20supporting%20information%20other%20than%20missing%20files%20should%20be%20addressed%20to%20the%20authors) 

[^Cleland_2011_a]: Editor, Elsa Cleland Manuscript received 11 April 2011 First decision made 16 December 2010 Manuscript accepted 12 April 2011 [[Cleland_ManuscriptReceived_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Editor%20Elsa%20Cleland%20Manuscript%20received%2011%20April%202011%20First%20decision%20made%2016%20December%202010%20Manuscript%20accepted%2012%20April%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Editor%20Elsa%20Cleland%20Manuscript%20received%2011%20April%202011%20First%20decision%20made%2016%20December%202010%20Manuscript%20accepted%2012%20April%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Editor%20Elsa%20Cleland%20Manuscript%20received%2011%20April%202011%20First%20decision%20made%2016%20December%202010%20Manuscript%20accepted%2012%20April%202011)

