[[War_et+al_DifferentialDefensiveResponseGroundnutGermplasms_2011]]

# [Differential defensive response of groundnut germplasms toHelicoverpa armigera(Hubner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)](https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17429145.2011.587898)

## [[Abdul Rashid War]]; [[Michael Gabriel Paulraj]]; [[Mohd Yousf War]] et al.

### 2011

## Abstract
Abbreviations: analysis of variance, ANOVA; bovine serum albumin, BSA; ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, EDTA; fresh weight, FW; gallic acid equivalents, GAE; hydrogen peroxide, H2O2; potassium iodide, KI; lipoxygenase, LOX; malondialdehyde, MDA; sodium carbonate, Na2CO3; peroxidase, POD; polyphenol oxidase, PPO; polyvinyl pyrolidone, PVP; reactive oxygen species, ROS; thiobarbituric acid, TBA; thiobarbituric acid reactive substance, TBARS; trichloroacetic acid, TCA; Tris-hydrochloride, Tris-HCl.

## Key concepts
#polyphenol_oxidase; #result/H2O2; #peroxidase; #induced_resistance; #thiobarbituric_acid; #hydrogen_peroxide; #trichloroacetic_acid; #malondialdehyde; #reactive_oxygen_species; #bovine_serum_albumin; #ecology; #analysis_of_variance; #reactive_oxygen; #bemisia_tabaci

## Quote
> These results show the differential defensive responses of the three groundnut genotypes against H. armigera and offer a perspective on plant resistance in insect plant interaction


## Key points
- Plants are always under heavy biotic stress due to the attack by insect pests, which are the main crop damaging agents worldwide
- Significant differences were observed in POD activity between control and infested plants of all the three genotypes at all the time intervals
- Induced resistance is an important component of plant defense that allows plants to be phenotypically plastic in order to face different stresses and is economical, environment friendly, and effective
- In this study we examined the defensive biochemical response of the three groundnut genotypes to H. armigera feeding
- Reduced plant damage, decreased survival, and lower larval weights recorded in insect resistant genotypes might be due to higher enzyme activities, the amounts of total phenols, and H2O2 and MDA contents in the infested plants
- These results show the differential defensive responses of the three groundnut genotypes against H. armigera and offer a perspective on plant resistance in insect plant interaction

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Plants are always under heavy biotic stress due to the attack by insect pests, which are the main crop damaging agents worldwide.
Plants have developed a wide range of physio-chemical mechanisms to defend themselves against herbivore attack (Rasmann and Agrawal 2009; Sharma et al 2009; Usha Rani and Jyothsna 2010).
This resistance can be constitutive, i.e. is present in the plant independent of any stress (Franceschi et al 2005) and forms the first barrier to herbivore insects or it can be inducible, i.e. is activated only when the plant is attacked ([^Kessler_2002_a]) thereby protects the plant from further damage.
Indirect defense is aimed at the attraction of natural enemies of the attacker, e.g. by the stimulating plant volatile emission

### Methods
The chemicals used in this study were of analytical grade.
Tris-HCl, polyvinyl pyrolidone (PVP), EDTA, disodium hydrogen phosphate, sodium dihydrogen phosphate, Guaiacol and Thiobarbituric acid (TBA) were obtained from HiMedia Lab. Pvt.
Ltd. Mumbai and 2-mercaptoethanol was procured from Loba Chemie, Mumbai.
Pyrocatechol was obtained from the Central Drug House, Mumbai.
Coomassie brilliant blue-G250 was obtained from Sisco Research Lab., Mumbai.
Bovine serum albumin (BSA), potassium iodide (KI), and sodium carbonate (Na2CO3) were obtained from S.d. Fine Chemicals Ltd. Mumbai.
Gallic acid and Folin-Ciocalteau reagent were obtained from Merck, Mumbai.
Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) was obtained from Qualigens Fine Chemicals, Mumbai

### Results
POD activity Helicoverpa armigera infestation induced POD activity in the tested groundnut genotypes (Figure 1).
Significant differences were observed in POD activity between control and infested plants of all the three genotypes at all the time intervals.
Infested plants of ICGV 86699 exhibited nearly twofold increase in POD activity at all the time periods than that of uninfested control plants.
NCAc 343 showed higher induction at later stages.
Across the genotypes significantly higher POD activity was observed both in control and infested plants of ICGV 86699 throughout the test period than that of NCAc 343 and TMV 2.

### Discussion
Induced resistance is an important component of plant defense that allows plants to be phenotypically plastic in order to face different stresses and is economical, environment friendly, and effective.
In this study the authors examined the defensive biochemical response of the three groundnut genotypes to H. armigera feeding.
Increased levels of defense-related proteins are a common phenomenon occurring in plants on account of biotic and abiotic stress ([^Broze_et+al_2010_a]).
Present studies showed increased POD activity in H. armigera infested plants than the control ones.
Both constitutive and induced levels of POD showed a progressive increase throughout the test period in all the tested genotypes.

### Conclusion
Helicoverpa armigera infestation induced the enzyme activities of POD, PPO, and amounts of total phenols, H2O2, MDA, and proteins.
A quick response was shown by all the three genotypes to H. armigera infestation.
Reduced plant damage, decreased survival, and lower larval weights recorded in insect resistant genotypes might be due to higher enzyme activities, the amounts of total phenols, and H2O2 and MDA contents in the infested plants.
These results show the differential defensive responses of the three groundnut genotypes against H. armigera and offer a perspective on plant resistance in insect plant interaction


## Study subjects

### 350 species
- India is the largest groundnut producer in the world with an area of 6.40 million hectares, and the total production is estimated to be 7.21 million tons (Sharma et al 2003). ==This crop is attacked by more than 350 species of insects in different parts of the world, among which, thrips, aphids, white grubs, leafhoppers, armyworm (Spodoptera litura), and cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera) are the important pests in India (Sharma et al 2003)==. Helicoverpa armigera is one of the most important constraints to crop production in Asia, Africa, Australia, and Mediterranean Europe

### 200 plant species
- Helicoverpa armigera is one of the most important constraints to crop production in Asia, Africa, Australia, and Mediterranean Europe. ==It is a polyphagous pest and has been reported to attack more than 200 plant species, including cotton, groundnut, sorghum, maize, chickpea, pigeonpea, etc., and has developed resistance to most of the chemical insecticides (Sharma et al 2005)==. Screening of germplasm for resistance to insect pests has received considerable attention, however, there is limited progress in characterization of physiological and biochemical mechanisms conferring resistance to insects (Heng-Moss et al 2004; Sharma et al 2009)

### 10 larvae
- Helicoverpa armigera infestation Newly emerged first instars (neonates; 1 day old) larvae of H. armigera were obtained from the stock culture maintained on artificial diet under laboratory conditions (26918C; 1190.5 h photoperiod and 7595% relative humidity) from the insectary of the Entomology Research Institute, Loyola College, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. ==Larvae were pre-starved for 4 h and 10 larvae were gently placed on each 20day-old plant by using a camel hair brush==. Enzyme assays Leaves were collected from the infested and uninfested plants at different time intervals

## Data analysis
- #method/two_way_analysis_of_variance
- #method/ANOVA
- #method/tukeys_test
- #method/analysis_of_variance

## Findings
- Asia accounts for over 70% of the worlds’ groundnut production (Freeman et al 1999)

##  Confirmation of earlier findings
- An overall similarity was observed in the patterns of expression of antioxidant enzymes in the resistant groundnut genotypes along with a susceptible genotype. ==Our results are in accordance with many previous studies where herbivore infestation has been reported to induce POD== (Heng-Moss et al 2004; Huang et al 2007; [^Zhang_et+al_2008_a]; Chen et al 2009; Han et al 2009; Gulsen et al 2010; Usha Rani and Jyothsna 2010; He et al 2011), and PPO activities ([^Ramiro_et+al_2006_a]; Thipyapong et al 2006; [^Bhonwong_et+al_2009_a]</a></a>; [^Zhao_et+al_2009_a]; He et al 2011)

## Contributions
- Helicoverpa armigera infestation induced the enzyme activities of POD, PPO, and amounts of total phenols, H2O2, MDA, and proteins. A quick response was shown by all the three genotypes to H. armigera infestation. Reduced plant damage, decreased survival, and lower larval weights recorded in insect resistant genotypes might be due to higher enzyme activities, the amounts of total phenols, and H2O2 and MDA contents in the infested plants. These results show the differential defensive responses of the three groundnut genotypes against H. armigera and offer a perspective on plant resistance in insect plant interaction.


## References
[^Agrawal_2000_a]: Agrawal AA. 2000. Benefits and costs of induced plant defense for Lepidium virginicum (Brassicaceae). Ecology. 81:1804Á1813. [[Agrawal_BenefitsCostsInducedPlantDefense_2000]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Benefits%20and%20costs%20of%20induced%20plant%20defense%20for%20Lepidium%20virginicum%20%28Brassicaceae%29.%20Ecology%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Benefits%20and%20costs%20of%20induced%20plant%20defense%20for%20Lepidium%20virginicum%20%28Brassicaceae%29.%20Ecology%202000) 

[^Agrawal_et+al_2009_a]: Agrawal AA, Fishbein M, Jetter R, Salminen JP, Goldstein JB, Freitag AE, Sparks JP. 2009. Phylogenetic ecology of leaf surface traits in the milkweeds (Asclepias spp.): chemistry, ecophysiology, and insect behavior. New Phytol. 183:848Á867. [[Agrawal_et+al_PhylogeneticEcologyLeafSurfaceTraits_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Fishbein%2C%20M.%20Jetter%2C%20R.%20Salminen%2C%20J.P.%20Phylogenetic%20ecology%20of%20leaf%20surface%20traits%20in%20the%20milkweeds%20%28Asclepias%20spp.%29%3A%20chemistry%2C%20ecophysiology%2C%20and%20insect%20behavior%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Fishbein%2C%20M.%20Jetter%2C%20R.%20Salminen%2C%20J.P.%20Phylogenetic%20ecology%20of%20leaf%20surface%20traits%20in%20the%20milkweeds%20%28Asclepias%20spp.%29%3A%20chemistry%2C%20ecophysiology%2C%20and%20insect%20behavior%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Agrawal%2C%20A.A.%20Fishbein%2C%20M.%20Jetter%2C%20R.%20Salminen%2C%20J.P.%20Phylogenetic%20ecology%20of%20leaf%20surface%20traits%20in%20the%20milkweeds%20%28Asclepias%20spp.%29%3A%20chemistry%2C%20ecophysiology%2C%20and%20insect%20behavior%202009)

[^Allison_2004_a]: Allison SD, Schultz JC. 2004. Differential activity of peroxidase isozyme in response to wounding, gypsy moth, and plant hormones in northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.). J Chem Ecol. 30(7):1363Á1379. [[Allison_DifferentialActivityPeroxidaseIsozymeResponse_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Schultz%2C%20J.C.%20Differential%20activity%20of%20peroxidase%20isozyme%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20gypsy%20moth%2C%20and%20plant%20hormones%20in%20northern%20red%20oak%20%28Quercus%20rubra%20L.%29%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Schultz%2C%20J.C.%20Differential%20activity%20of%20peroxidase%20isozyme%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20gypsy%20moth%2C%20and%20plant%20hormones%20in%20northern%20red%20oak%20%28Quercus%20rubra%20L.%29%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Allison%2C%20S.D.%20Schultz%2C%20J.C.%20Differential%20activity%20of%20peroxidase%20isozyme%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20gypsy%20moth%2C%20and%20plant%20hormones%20in%20northern%20red%20oak%20%28Quercus%20rubra%20L.%29%202004)

[^Arimura_et+al_2009_a]: Arimura G, Matsui K, Takabayashi J. 2009. Chemical and molecular ecology of herbivore-induced plant volatiles: proximate factors and their ultimate functions. Plant Cell Physiol. 50:911Á923. [[Arimura_et+al_ChemicalMolecularEcologyHerbivoreinducedPlant_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Arimura%2C%20G.%20Matsui%2C%20K.%20Takabayashi%2C%20J.%20Chemical%20and%20molecular%20ecology%20of%20herbivore-induced%20plant%20volatiles%3A%20proximate%20factors%20and%20their%20ultimate%20functions%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Arimura%2C%20G.%20Matsui%2C%20K.%20Takabayashi%2C%20J.%20Chemical%20and%20molecular%20ecology%20of%20herbivore-induced%20plant%20volatiles%3A%20proximate%20factors%20and%20their%20ultimate%20functions%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Arimura%2C%20G.%20Matsui%2C%20K.%20Takabayashi%2C%20J.%20Chemical%20and%20molecular%20ecology%20of%20herbivore-induced%20plant%20volatiles%3A%20proximate%20factors%20and%20their%20ultimate%20functions%202009)

[^Berglund_1995_a]: Berglund T, Ohlsson AB. 1995. Defensive and secondary metabolism in plant tissue cultures, with special reference to nicotinamide, glutathione and oxidative stress. Plant Cell Tiss Org Cult. 43:137Á145. [[Berglund_DefensiveSecondaryMetabolismPlantTissue_1995]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Berglund%2C%20T.%20Ohlsson%2C%20A.B.%20Defensive%20and%20secondary%20metabolism%20in%20plant%20tissue%20cultures%2C%20with%20special%20reference%20to%20nicotinamide%2C%20glutathione%20and%20oxidative%20stress%201995) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Berglund%2C%20T.%20Ohlsson%2C%20A.B.%20Defensive%20and%20secondary%20metabolism%20in%20plant%20tissue%20cultures%2C%20with%20special%20reference%20to%20nicotinamide%2C%20glutathione%20and%20oxidative%20stress%201995) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Berglund%2C%20T.%20Ohlsson%2C%20A.B.%20Defensive%20and%20secondary%20metabolism%20in%20plant%20tissue%20cultures%2C%20with%20special%20reference%20to%20nicotinamide%2C%20glutathione%20and%20oxidative%20stress%201995)

[^Bhonwong_et+al_2009_a]: Bhonwong A, Stout MJ, Attajarusit J, Tantasawat P. 2009. Defensive role of tomato polyphenol oxidase against cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera) and beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua). J Chem Ecol. 35:28Á 38. [[Bhonwong_et+al_DefensiveRoleTomatoPolyphenolOxidase_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bhonwong%2C%20A.%20Stout%2C%20M.J.%20Attajarusit%2C%20J.%20Tantasawat%2C%20P.%20Defensive%20role%20of%20tomato%20polyphenol%20oxidase%20against%20cotton%20bollworm%20%28Helicoverpa%20armigera%29%20and%20beet%20armyworm%20%28Spodoptera%20exigua%29%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bhonwong%2C%20A.%20Stout%2C%20M.J.%20Attajarusit%2C%20J.%20Tantasawat%2C%20P.%20Defensive%20role%20of%20tomato%20polyphenol%20oxidase%20against%20cotton%20bollworm%20%28Helicoverpa%20armigera%29%20and%20beet%20armyworm%20%28Spodoptera%20exigua%29%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bhonwong%2C%20A.%20Stout%2C%20M.J.%20Attajarusit%2C%20J.%20Tantasawat%2C%20P.%20Defensive%20role%20of%20tomato%20polyphenol%20oxidase%20against%20cotton%20bollworm%20%28Helicoverpa%20armigera%29%20and%20beet%20armyworm%20%28Spodoptera%20exigua%29%202009)

[^Boka_et+al_2007_a]: Boka K, Orban N, Kristof Z. 2007. Dynamics and localization of H2O2 production in elicited plant cells. Protoplasma. 230:89Á97. [[Boka_et+al_DynamicsLocalizationH2o2ProductionElicited_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Boka%2C%20K.%20Orban%2C%20N.%20Kristof%2C%20Z.%20Dynamics%20and%20localization%20of%20H2O2%20production%20in%20elicited%20plant%20cells%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Boka%2C%20K.%20Orban%2C%20N.%20Kristof%2C%20Z.%20Dynamics%20and%20localization%20of%20H2O2%20production%20in%20elicited%20plant%20cells%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Boka%2C%20K.%20Orban%2C%20N.%20Kristof%2C%20Z.%20Dynamics%20and%20localization%20of%20H2O2%20production%20in%20elicited%20plant%20cells%202007)

[^Bostock_2005_a]: Bostock RM. 2005. Signal crosstalk and induced resistance: straddling the line between cost and benefit. Annu Rev Phytopathol. 43:545Á580. [[Bostock_SignalCrosstalkInducedResistanceStraddling_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bostock%2C%20R.M.%20Signal%20crosstalk%20and%20induced%20resistance%3A%20straddling%20the%20line%20between%20cost%20and%20benefit%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bostock%2C%20R.M.%20Signal%20crosstalk%20and%20induced%20resistance%3A%20straddling%20the%20line%20between%20cost%20and%20benefit%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bostock%2C%20R.M.%20Signal%20crosstalk%20and%20induced%20resistance%3A%20straddling%20the%20line%20between%20cost%20and%20benefit%202005)

[^Bradford_1976_a]: Bradford M. 1976. A rapid and sensitive method for the quantitation of microgram quantities of protein utilizing the principle of protein-dye binding. Anal Biochem. 72:248Á254. [[Bradford_RapidSensitiveMethodQuantitationMicrogram_1976]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bradford%2C%20M.%20A%20rapid%20and%20sensitive%20method%20for%20the%20quantitation%20of%20microgram%20quantities%20of%20protein%20utilizing%20the%20principle%20of%20protein-dye%20binding%201976) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bradford%2C%20M.%20A%20rapid%20and%20sensitive%20method%20for%20the%20quantitation%20of%20microgram%20quantities%20of%20protein%20utilizing%20the%20principle%20of%20protein-dye%20binding%201976) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bradford%2C%20M.%20A%20rapid%20and%20sensitive%20method%20for%20the%20quantitation%20of%20microgram%20quantities%20of%20protein%20utilizing%20the%20principle%20of%20protein-dye%20binding%201976)

[^Broze_et+al_2010_a]: Broze AK, Broeckling CD, De-le-Pena C, Lewis MR, Greene E, Callaway RM, Sumner LW, Vivanco JM. 2010. Plant neighbor identity influences plant biochemistry and physiology related to defense. BMC Plant Biology. 10:115. [[Broze_et+al_PlantNeighborIdentityInfluencesPlant_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Broze%2C%20A.K.%20Broeckling%2C%20C.D.%20De-le-Pena%2C%20C.%20Lewis%2C%20M.R.%20Plant%20neighbor%20identity%20influences%20plant%20biochemistry%20and%20physiology%20related%20to%20defense%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Broze%2C%20A.K.%20Broeckling%2C%20C.D.%20De-le-Pena%2C%20C.%20Lewis%2C%20M.R.%20Plant%20neighbor%20identity%20influences%20plant%20biochemistry%20and%20physiology%20related%20to%20defense%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Broze%2C%20A.K.%20Broeckling%2C%20C.D.%20De-le-Pena%2C%20C.%20Lewis%2C%20M.R.%20Plant%20neighbor%20identity%20influences%20plant%20biochemistry%20and%20physiology%20related%20to%20defense%202010)

[^Bruinsma_2008_a]: Bruinsma M, Dicke M. 2008. Herbivore-induced indirect defense: from induction mechanisms to community ecology. In: Schaller A, editor. Induced plant resistance to herbivory. Berlin (Germany): Springer Verlag, p. 31Á60. Carmak I, Horst JH. 1991. Effects of aluminium on lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase, catalase and peroxidase activities in root tips of soybean (Glycine max). Physiol Plant. 83:463Á468. Chaman ME, Corcuera LJ, Zuniga GE, Cardemil L, Argandona VH. 2001. Induction of soluble and cell wall bound peroxidases by aphid infestation in barley. J Agric Food Sci. 49:2249Á2253. Chen Y, Ni X, Buntin GD. 2009. [[Bruinsma_HerbivoreinducedIndirectDefenseFromInduction_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bruinsma%2C%20M.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Herbivore-induced%20indirect%20defense%3A%20from%20induction%20mechanisms%20to%20community%20ecology%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bruinsma%2C%20M.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Herbivore-induced%20indirect%20defense%3A%20from%20induction%20mechanisms%20to%20community%20ecology%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bruinsma%2C%20M.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Herbivore-induced%20indirect%20defense%3A%20from%20induction%20mechanisms%20to%20community%20ecology%202008)

[^Kappers_et+al_2011_a]: Kappers IF, Hoogerbrugge H, Bouwmeester HJ, Dicke M. 2011. Variation in herbivory-induced volatiles among cucumber (Cucumis sativus) varieties has consequences for the attraction of carnivorous natural enemies. J Chem Ecol. 37:150Á160. [[Kappers_et+al_VariationHerbivoryinducedVolatilesAmongCucumber_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kappers%2C%20I.F.%20Hoogerbrugge%2C%20H.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.J.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Variation%20in%20herbivory-induced%20volatiles%20among%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%29%20varieties%20has%20consequences%20for%20the%20attraction%20of%20carnivorous%20natural%20enemies%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kappers%2C%20I.F.%20Hoogerbrugge%2C%20H.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.J.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Variation%20in%20herbivory-induced%20volatiles%20among%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%29%20varieties%20has%20consequences%20for%20the%20attraction%20of%20carnivorous%20natural%20enemies%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kappers%2C%20I.F.%20Hoogerbrugge%2C%20H.%20Bouwmeester%2C%20H.J.%20Dicke%2C%20M.%20Variation%20in%20herbivory-induced%20volatiles%20among%20cucumber%20%28Cucumis%20sativus%29%20varieties%20has%20consequences%20for%20the%20attraction%20of%20carnivorous%20natural%20enemies%202011)

[^Karban_2011_a]: Karban R. 2011. The ecology and evolution of induced resistance against herbivores. Func Ecol. 25:339Á347. [[Karban_EcologyEvolutionInducedResistanceAgainst_2011]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Karban%2C%20R.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20induced%20resistance%20against%20herbivores%202011) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Karban%2C%20R.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20induced%20resistance%20against%20herbivores%202011) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Karban%2C%20R.%20The%20ecology%20and%20evolution%20of%20induced%20resistance%20against%20herbivores%202011)

[^Kessler_2002_a]: Kessler A, Baldwin IT. 2002. Plant responses to insect herbivory: the emerging molecular analysis. Ann Rev Plant Biol. 53:299Á328. [[Kessler_PlantResponsesInsectHerbivoryEmerging_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kessler%2C%20A.%20Baldwin%2C%20I.T.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20insect%20herbivory%3A%20the%20emerging%20molecular%20analysis%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kessler%2C%20A.%20Baldwin%2C%20I.T.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20insect%20herbivory%3A%20the%20emerging%20molecular%20analysis%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kessler%2C%20A.%20Baldwin%2C%20I.T.%20Plant%20responses%20to%20insect%20herbivory%3A%20the%20emerging%20molecular%20analysis%202002)

[^Lawrence_2002_a]: Lawrence PK, Koundal KR. 2002. Plant protease inhibitors in control of phytophagous insects. EJB Electron J Biotechn. 5:93Á109. [[Lawrence_PlantProteaseInhibitorsControlPhytophagous_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lawrence%2C%20P.K.%20Koundal%2C%20K.R.%20Plant%20protease%20inhibitors%20in%20control%20of%20phytophagous%20insects%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lawrence%2C%20P.K.%20Koundal%2C%20K.R.%20Plant%20protease%20inhibitors%20in%20control%20of%20phytophagous%20insects%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lawrence%2C%20P.K.%20Koundal%2C%20K.R.%20Plant%20protease%20inhibitors%20in%20control%20of%20phytophagous%20insects%202002)

[^Maffei_et+al_2006_a]: Maffei ME, Mithofer A, Arimura GI, Uchtenhagen H, Bossi S, Bertea CM, Cucuzza LS, Novero M, Volpe V, Quadro S, et al. 2006. Effects of feeding Spodoptera littoralis on lima bean leaves. III. Membrane depolarization and involvement of hydrogen peroxide. Plant Physiol. 140:1022Á1035. [[Maffei_et+al_EffectsFeedingSpodopteraLittoralisLima_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Arimura%2C%20G.I.%20Uchtenhagen%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20feeding%20Spodoptera%20littoralis%20on%20lima%20bean%20leaves.%20III.%20Membrane%20depolarization%20and%20involvement%20of%20hydrogen%20peroxide%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Arimura%2C%20G.I.%20Uchtenhagen%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20feeding%20Spodoptera%20littoralis%20on%20lima%20bean%20leaves.%20III.%20Membrane%20depolarization%20and%20involvement%20of%20hydrogen%20peroxide%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Arimura%2C%20G.I.%20Uchtenhagen%2C%20H.%20Effects%20of%20feeding%20Spodoptera%20littoralis%20on%20lima%20bean%20leaves.%20III.%20Membrane%20depolarization%20and%20involvement%20of%20hydrogen%20peroxide%202006)

[^Maffei_et+al_2007_a]: Maffei ME, Mithofer A, Boland W. 2007. Insects feeding on plants: rapid signals and responses preceding the induction of phytochemical release. Phytochemistry. 68:2946Á2959. [[Maffei_et+al_InsectsFeedingPlantsRapidSignals_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Boland%2C%20W.%20Insects%20feeding%20on%20plants%3A%20rapid%20signals%20and%20responses%20preceding%20the%20induction%20of%20phytochemical%20release%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Boland%2C%20W.%20Insects%20feeding%20on%20plants%3A%20rapid%20signals%20and%20responses%20preceding%20the%20induction%20of%20phytochemical%20release%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Maffei%2C%20M.E.%20Mithofer%2C%20A.%20Boland%2C%20W.%20Insects%20feeding%20on%20plants%3A%20rapid%20signals%20and%20responses%20preceding%20the%20induction%20of%20phytochemical%20release%202007)

[^Mayer_1979_a]: Mayer AM, Harel E. 1979. Polyphenoloxidases in plants. Phytochemistry. 18:193Á215. [[Mayer_PolyphenoloxidasesPlants_1979]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mayer%2C%20A.M.%20Harel%2C%20E.%20Polyphenoloxidases%20in%20plants%201979) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mayer%2C%20A.M.%20Harel%2C%20E.%20Polyphenoloxidases%20in%20plants%201979) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mayer%2C%20A.M.%20Harel%2C%20E.%20Polyphenoloxidases%20in%20plants%201979)

[^Miranda_et+al_2007_a]: Miranda M, Ralph SG, Mellway R, White R, Heath MC, Bohlmann J, Constabel CP. 2007. The transcriptional response of hybrid poplar (Populus trichocarpa )P. deltoides) to infection by Melampsora medusae leaf rust involves induction of flavonoid pathway genes leading to the accumulation of proanthocyanidins. Mol Plant Microbe Interact. 20:816Á831. [[Miranda_et+al_TranscriptionalResponseHybridPoplarpopulus_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Miranda%2C%20M.%20Ralph%2C%20S.G.%20Mellway%2C%20R.%20White%2C%20R.%20The%20transcriptional%20response%20of%20hybrid%20poplar%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20%29P.%20deltoides%29%20to%20infection%20by%20Melampsora%20medusae%20leaf%20rust%20involves%20induction%20of%20flavonoid%20pathway%20genes%20leading%20to%20the%20accumulation%20of%20proanthocyanidins%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Miranda%2C%20M.%20Ralph%2C%20S.G.%20Mellway%2C%20R.%20White%2C%20R.%20The%20transcriptional%20response%20of%20hybrid%20poplar%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20%29P.%20deltoides%29%20to%20infection%20by%20Melampsora%20medusae%20leaf%20rust%20involves%20induction%20of%20flavonoid%20pathway%20genes%20leading%20to%20the%20accumulation%20of%20proanthocyanidins%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Miranda%2C%20M.%20Ralph%2C%20S.G.%20Mellway%2C%20R.%20White%2C%20R.%20The%20transcriptional%20response%20of%20hybrid%20poplar%20%28Populus%20trichocarpa%20%29P.%20deltoides%29%20to%20infection%20by%20Melampsora%20medusae%20leaf%20rust%20involves%20induction%20of%20flavonoid%20pathway%20genes%20leading%20to%20the%20accumulation%20of%20proanthocyanidins%202007)

[^Moloi_2006_a]: Moloi MJ, van der Westhuizen AJ. 2006. The reactive oxygen species are involved in resistance responses of wheat to the Russian wheat aphid. J Plant Physiol. 163:1118Á1125. [[Moloi_ReactiveOxygenSpeciesInvolvedResistance_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moloi%2C%20M.J.%20van%20der%20Westhuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20reactive%20oxygen%20species%20are%20involved%20in%20resistance%20responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20the%20Russian%20wheat%20aphid%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moloi%2C%20M.J.%20van%20der%20Westhuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20reactive%20oxygen%20species%20are%20involved%20in%20resistance%20responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20the%20Russian%20wheat%20aphid%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moloi%2C%20M.J.%20van%20der%20Westhuizen%2C%20A.J.%20The%20reactive%20oxygen%20species%20are%20involved%20in%20resistance%20responses%20of%20wheat%20to%20the%20Russian%20wheat%20aphid%202006)

[^Moore_et+al_2003_a]: Moore JP, Paul ND, Whittakar JB, Taylor JE. 2003. Exogenous jasmonic acid mimics herbivore-induced systemic increase in cell wall bound peroxidase activity and reduction in leaf expansion. Func Ecol. 17:549Á 554. [[Moore_et+al_ExogenousJasmonicAcidMimicsHerbivoreinduced_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Moore%2C%20J.P.%20Paul%2C%20N.D.%20Whittakar%2C%20J.B.%20Taylor%2C%20J.E.%20Exogenous%20jasmonic%20acid%20mimics%20herbivore-induced%20systemic%20increase%20in%20cell%20wall%20bound%20peroxidase%20activity%20and%20reduction%20in%20leaf%20expansion%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Moore%2C%20J.P.%20Paul%2C%20N.D.%20Whittakar%2C%20J.B.%20Taylor%2C%20J.E.%20Exogenous%20jasmonic%20acid%20mimics%20herbivore-induced%20systemic%20increase%20in%20cell%20wall%20bound%20peroxidase%20activity%20and%20reduction%20in%20leaf%20expansion%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Moore%2C%20J.P.%20Paul%2C%20N.D.%20Whittakar%2C%20J.B.%20Taylor%2C%20J.E.%20Exogenous%20jasmonic%20acid%20mimics%20herbivore-induced%20systemic%20increase%20in%20cell%20wall%20bound%20peroxidase%20activity%20and%20reduction%20in%20leaf%20expansion%202003)

[^Ni_et+al_2001_a]: Ni X, Quisenberry SS, Heng-Moss T, Markwell J, Sarath G, Klucas R, Baxendale FP. 2001. Oxidative responses of resistant and susceptible cereal leaves to symptomatic and nonsymptomatic cereal aphid (Hemiptera: Aphididae) feeding. J Econ Entomol. 94:743Á751. [[Ni_et+al_OxidativeResponsesResistantSusceptibleCereal_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ni%2C%20X.%20Quisenberry%2C%20S.S.%20Heng-Moss%2C%20T.%20Markwell%2C%20J.%20Oxidative%20responses%20of%20resistant%20and%20susceptible%20cereal%20leaves%20to%20symptomatic%20and%20nonsymptomatic%20cereal%20aphid%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aphididae%29%20feeding%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ni%2C%20X.%20Quisenberry%2C%20S.S.%20Heng-Moss%2C%20T.%20Markwell%2C%20J.%20Oxidative%20responses%20of%20resistant%20and%20susceptible%20cereal%20leaves%20to%20symptomatic%20and%20nonsymptomatic%20cereal%20aphid%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aphididae%29%20feeding%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ni%2C%20X.%20Quisenberry%2C%20S.S.%20Heng-Moss%2C%20T.%20Markwell%2C%20J.%20Oxidative%20responses%20of%20resistant%20and%20susceptible%20cereal%20leaves%20to%20symptomatic%20and%20nonsymptomatic%20cereal%20aphid%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aphididae%29%20feeding%202001)

[^Noreen_2009_a]: Noreen Z, Ashraf M. 2009. Change in antioxidant enzymes and some key metabolites in some genetically diverse cultivars of radish (Raphanus sativus L.). Environ Exp Bot. 67:395Á402. [[Noreen_ChangeAntioxidantEnzymesSomeMetabolites_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Noreen%2C%20Z.%20Ashraf%2C%20M.%20Change%20in%20antioxidant%20enzymes%20and%20some%20key%20metabolites%20in%20some%20genetically%20diverse%20cultivars%20of%20radish%20%28Raphanus%20sativus%20L.%29%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Noreen%2C%20Z.%20Ashraf%2C%20M.%20Change%20in%20antioxidant%20enzymes%20and%20some%20key%20metabolites%20in%20some%20genetically%20diverse%20cultivars%20of%20radish%20%28Raphanus%20sativus%20L.%29%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Noreen%2C%20Z.%20Ashraf%2C%20M.%20Change%20in%20antioxidant%20enzymes%20and%20some%20key%20metabolites%20in%20some%20genetically%20diverse%20cultivars%20of%20radish%20%28Raphanus%20sativus%20L.%29%202009)

[^Orozco-Cardenas_et+al_2001_a]: Orozco-Cardenas ML, Narvaez-Vasquez J, Ryan CA. 2001. Hydrogen peroxide acts as a second messenger for the induction of defense genes in tomato plants in response to wounding, systemin and methyl jasmonates. Plant Cell. 13:179Á191. [[Orozco-Cardenas_et+al_HydrogenPeroxideActsSecondMessenger_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Orozco-Cardenas%2C%20M.L.%20Narvaez-Vasquez%2C%20J.%20Ryan%2C%20C.A.%20Hydrogen%20peroxide%20acts%20as%20a%20second%20messenger%20for%20the%20induction%20of%20defense%20genes%20in%20tomato%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20systemin%20and%20methyl%20jasmonates%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Orozco-Cardenas%2C%20M.L.%20Narvaez-Vasquez%2C%20J.%20Ryan%2C%20C.A.%20Hydrogen%20peroxide%20acts%20as%20a%20second%20messenger%20for%20the%20induction%20of%20defense%20genes%20in%20tomato%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20systemin%20and%20methyl%20jasmonates%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Orozco-Cardenas%2C%20M.L.%20Narvaez-Vasquez%2C%20J.%20Ryan%2C%20C.A.%20Hydrogen%20peroxide%20acts%20as%20a%20second%20messenger%20for%20the%20induction%20of%20defense%20genes%20in%20tomato%20plants%20in%20response%20to%20wounding%2C%20systemin%20and%20methyl%20jasmonates%202001)

[^Purrington_2000_a]: Purrington CB. 2000. Costs of resistance. Curr Opin Plant Biol. 3:305Á308. [[Purrington_CostsResistanceCurrOpinPlant_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Purrington%2C%20C.B.%20Costs%20of%20resistance.%20Curr%20Opin%20Plant%20Biol%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Purrington%2C%20C.B.%20Costs%20of%20resistance.%20Curr%20Opin%20Plant%20Biol%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Purrington%2C%20C.B.%20Costs%20of%20resistance.%20Curr%20Opin%20Plant%20Biol%202000)

[^Ramiro_et+al_2006_a]: Ramiro DA, Guerreiro-Filho O, Mazzafera P. 2006. Phenol contents, oxidase activities, and the resistance of coffee to the leaf miner Leucoptera coffeella. J Chem Ecol. 32:1977Á1988. [[Ramiro_et+al_PhenolContentsOxidaseActivitiesResistance_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ramiro%2C%20D.A.%20Guerreiro-Filho%2C%20O.%20Mazzafera%2C%20P.%20Phenol%20contents%2C%20oxidase%20activities%2C%20and%20the%20resistance%20of%20coffee%20to%20the%20leaf%20miner%20Leucoptera%20coffeella%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ramiro%2C%20D.A.%20Guerreiro-Filho%2C%20O.%20Mazzafera%2C%20P.%20Phenol%20contents%2C%20oxidase%20activities%2C%20and%20the%20resistance%20of%20coffee%20to%20the%20leaf%20miner%20Leucoptera%20coffeella%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ramiro%2C%20D.A.%20Guerreiro-Filho%2C%20O.%20Mazzafera%2C%20P.%20Phenol%20contents%2C%20oxidase%20activities%2C%20and%20the%20resistance%20of%20coffee%20to%20the%20leaf%20miner%20Leucoptera%20coffeella%202006)

[^Zhang_et+al_2008_a]: Zhang SZ, Hau BZ, Zhang F. 2008. Induction of the activities of antioxidative enzymes and the levels of malondialdehyde in cucumber seedlings as a consequence of Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) infestation. Arthropod-Plant Interact. 2:209Á213. [[Zhang_et+al_InductionActivitiesAntioxidativeEnzymesLevels_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20S.Z.%20Hau%2C%20B.Z.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Induction%20of%20the%20activities%20of%20antioxidative%20enzymes%20and%20the%20levels%20of%20malondialdehyde%20in%20cucumber%20seedlings%20as%20a%20consequence%20of%20Bemisia%20tabaci%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aleyrodidae%29%20infestation%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20S.Z.%20Hau%2C%20B.Z.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Induction%20of%20the%20activities%20of%20antioxidative%20enzymes%20and%20the%20levels%20of%20malondialdehyde%20in%20cucumber%20seedlings%20as%20a%20consequence%20of%20Bemisia%20tabaci%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aleyrodidae%29%20infestation%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20S.Z.%20Hau%2C%20B.Z.%20Zhang%2C%20F.%20Induction%20of%20the%20activities%20of%20antioxidative%20enzymes%20and%20the%20levels%20of%20malondialdehyde%20in%20cucumber%20seedlings%20as%20a%20consequence%20of%20Bemisia%20tabaci%20%28Hemiptera%3A%20Aleyrodidae%29%20infestation%202008)

[^Zhao_et+al_2009_a]: Zhao LY, Chen JL, Cheng DF, Sun JR, Liu Y, Tian Z. 2009. Biochemical and molecular characterizations of [[Zhao_et+al__2009]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhao%20LY%20Chen%20JL%20Cheng%20DF%20Sun%20JR%20Liu%20Y%20Tian%20Z%202009%20Biochemical%20and%20molecular%20characterizations%20of) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhao%20LY%20Chen%20JL%20Cheng%20DF%20Sun%20JR%20Liu%20Y%20Tian%20Z%202009%20Biochemical%20and%20molecular%20characterizations%20of) 

[^Zieslin_1993_a]: Sitobion avenae-induced wheat defense responses. Crop Prot. 28:435Á442. Zieslin N, Ben-Zaken R. 1993. Peroxidase activity and presence of phenolic substances in penduncles of rose flowers. Plant Physiol Biochem. 31:333Á339. [[Zieslin_SitobionAvenaeinducedWheatDefenseResponses_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zieslin%2C%20N.%20Ben-Zaken%2C%20R.%20Sitobion%20avenae-induced%20wheat%20defense%20responses.%20Crop%20Prot%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zieslin%2C%20N.%20Ben-Zaken%2C%20R.%20Sitobion%20avenae-induced%20wheat%20defense%20responses.%20Crop%20Prot%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zieslin%2C%20N.%20Ben-Zaken%2C%20R.%20Sitobion%20avenae-induced%20wheat%20defense%20responses.%20Crop%20Prot%201993)

