[[Zhao_et+al_SilicoInsightsIntoSymbioticNitrogen_2012]]

# [In Silico Insights into the Symbiotic Nitrogen Fixation in Sinorhizobium meliloti via Metabolic Reconstruction](https://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0031287)

## [[Hansheng Zhao]]; [[Mao Li]]; [[Kechi Fang]] et al.

### 2012

## Abstract
Background: Sinorhizobium meliloti is a soil bacterium, known for its capability to establish symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) with leguminous plants such as alfalfa. S. meliloti 1021 is the most ==extensively studied strain to understand the mechanism of SNF== and further to study the legume-microbe interaction. In order to provide insight into the metabolic characteristics underlying the SNF mechanism of S. meliloti 1021, there is an increasing demand to reconstruct a metabolic network for the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021.
Results: Through an iterative reconstruction process, a metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021 was presented, named as iHZ565, ==which accounts for 565 genes==, 503 internal reactions, and 522 metabolites. Subjected to a novelly defined objective function, the in silico predicted flux distribution was highly consistent with the in vivo evidences reported previously, ==which proves the robustness of the model==. Based on the model, refinement of genome annotation of S. meliloti 1021 was performed and 15 genes were re-annotated properly. There were 19.8% (112) of the 565 metabolic genes included in iHZ565 predicted to be essential for efficient SNF in bacteroids under the in silico microaerobic and nutrient sharing condition.
Conclusions: As the first metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021, the ==manually curated model iHZ565 provides an overview of the major metabolic properties of the SNF bioprocess== in S. meliloti 1021. The predicted SNFrequired essential genes will facilitate understanding of the key functions in SNF and help identify key genes and design experiments for further validation. ==The model iHZ565 can be used as a knowledge-based framework== ==for better understanding the symbiotic relationship between rhizobia and legumes==, ultimately, uncovering the mechanism of nitrogen fixation in bacteroids and providing new strategies to efficiently improve biological nitrogen fixation.

## Key concepts
#result/rhizobium; #result/objective_function; #rhizobium_meliloti; #sinorhizobium; #result/metabolism; #result/essential_gene; #sinorhizobium_meliloti; #claim/metabolic_network; #result/bacteria; #result/rhizobia; #result/symbiosis; #result/flux_balance_analysis; #result/tricarboxylic_acid_cycle; #result/cystathionine_beta_synthase; #rhizobial_bacteria; #bacterium; #rhizobium_etli; #result/bradyrhizobium_japonicum; #escherichia_coli; #method/linear_programming

## Quote
> We presented a manually curated metabolic network for the stage of symbiotic nitrogen fixation in S. meliloti 1021, named as iHZ565, which accounts for the main metabolic pathways participated in the stage of SNF


## Key points
- Sinorhizobium meliloti is a model bacterium belonging to rhizobia, known for its capability to perform symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) within leguminous host plants
- Namely the metabolism of cofactors and vitamins, includes essential components required by nitrogenase, which is a core enzyme in SNF and catalyses the ATP-dependent reduction of dinitrogen (N2) to ammonia (NH3)
- In the subsystem of energy metabolism, the number of genes is more than the number of reactions since most of these genes have multiple copies in order to meet the high demand for ATP consumed in the SNF
- In this study, we presented a manually curated a metabolic network of the SNF stage in S. meliloti 1021, which is known for its capability in symbiotic nitrogen fixation
- An iterative reconstruction process led to generation of a reliable metabolic model, termed as iHZ565, which contains 503 metabolic, and transport reactions, 522 metabolites, 565 genes and all the main pathways participated in the stage of SNF
- The defined objective function (OF) was based on the assumption that on the one hand, in the stage of SNF the biological process of nutrient sharing between plant and bacteroids should be tightly coupled with the process of nitrogen fixation in bacteroids; while on the other hand, the ammonia exported to plant should be generated by nitrogenase-catalysed reaction rather than other non-nitrogen fixation reaction indirectly generated

## Synopsis

### Introduction
Sinorhizobium meliloti is a model bacterium belonging to rhizobia, known for its capability to perform symbiotic nitrogen fixation (SNF) within leguminous host plants.
It thereby has gained a widespread interest for the potential benefits to sustainable agriculture and ecosystem, as well as to biological discoveries.
Plants supply rhizobial bacteria with dicarboxylic acids as carbon and energy sources [^3], in return, rhizobial bacteria provide the legume usable nitrogen in the form of ammonium, using their inherent ability to reduce atmosphere nitrogen gas
This process is accompanied by the cycling of amino acids between the partners [^4],[^5].
In order to provide insight into the metabolic characteristics underlying the SNF mechanism of S. meliloti 1021, there is an increasing demand to reconstruct a metabolic network for the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021

### Methods
Reconstruction of the SNF metabolic network The metabolic reconstruction of S. meliloti 1021 focused on the SNF stage, during which the differentiated bacteroids are nondividing and extremely distinguish from the normal bacterial cells.
One part of genes was collected from the putative orthologs between the annotated genes of S. meliloti 1021 and the genes of R. etli CFN42 incorporated in the iOR363.
Considering that both S. meliloti and R. etli are a-proteobacteria symbiotic nitrogen fixation bacteria, it was expected that many orthologs would exist,and have shared functions.
There were 73 reported genes can be directly incorporated into the initial reconstruction with high confidence.
These selected genes were subsequently associated with corresponding proteins and reactions to establish the association of gene-protein-reaction (GPR).
During the metabolic reconstruction of S. meliloti, various biological databases were used, including KEGG [^61], NCBI [^62], GeneDB [^42], UniProt [^63], BRENDA [^58], BiGG [^59], NodMutDB [^64], DEG [^43], RhizoGATE [^65], Transport

### Results
Through an iterative reconstruction process, a metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021 was presented, named as iHZ565, which accounts for 565 genes, 503 internal reactions, and 522 metabolites.
The experimental results demonstrate that S. meliloti 1021 has the capacity to synthesize several amino acids [^14]
Another large subsystem, namely the metabolism of cofactors and vitamins, includes essential components required by nitrogenase, which is a core enzyme in SNF and catalyses the ATP-dependent reduction of dinitrogen (N2) to ammonia (NH3).
In the subsystem of energy metabolism, the number of genes is more than the number of reactions since most of these genes have multiple copies in order to meet the high demand for ATP consumed in the SNF

### Conclusion
As the first metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021, the manually curated model iHZ565 provides an overview of the major metabolic properties of the SNF bioprocess in S. meliloti 1021.
The authors presented a manually curated a metabolic network of the SNF stage in S. meliloti 1021, which is known for its capability in symbiotic nitrogen fixation.
In order to balance these two biological processes and simultaneously optimize nitrogen fixation rate in the stage of SNF, the authors set both Reaction 1 and Reaction 2 as the OF in iHZ565.
Subjected to this defined OF, the in silico predicted flux distribution was highly consistent with the in vivo evidences reported previously.
About 19.8% (112) of the 565 metabolic genes included in iHZ565 were predicted to be essential under the in silico microaerobic and nutrient sharing condition


## Study subjects

### 565 genes
- In order to provide insight into the metabolic characteristics underlying the SNF mechanism of S. meliloti 1021, there is an increasing demand to reconstruct a metabolic network for the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021. ==Results: Through an iterative reconstruction process, a metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021 was presented, named as iHZ565, which accounts for 565 genes, 503 internal reactions, and 522 metabolites==. Subjected to a novelly defined objective function, the in silico predicted flux distribution was highly consistent with the in vivo evidences reported previously, which proves the robustness of the model

### 15 genes
- Subjected to a novelly defined objective function, the in silico predicted flux distribution was highly consistent with the in vivo evidences reported previously, which proves the robustness of the model. ==Based on the model, refinement of genome annotation of S. meliloti 1021 was performed and 15 genes were re-annotated properly==. There were 19.8% (112) of the 565 metabolic genes included in iHZ565 predicted to be essential for efficient SNF in bacteroids under the in silico microaerobic and nutrient sharing condition

### 565 metabolic genes
- Based on the model, refinement of genome annotation of S. meliloti 1021 was performed and 15 genes were re-annotated properly. ==There were 19.8% (112) of the 565 metabolic genes included in iHZ565 predicted to be essential for efficient SNF in bacteroids under the in silico microaerobic and nutrient sharing condition==. Conclusions: As the first metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021, the manually curated model iHZ565 provides an overview of the major metabolic properties of the SNF bioprocess in S. meliloti 1021

## Data analysis
- #method/BLAST

## Findings
- The reconstructed symbiotic nitrogen-fixing metabolic model of S. meliloti 1021, termed iHZ565, following the conventional naming rules [^18], includes 503 metabolic and transport reactions, 522 metabolites, and 565 genes, covering nearly 10% of the 6,218 protein coding genes identified from whole genome sequencing in Table 1

## Counterpoint to earlier claims
- An effort made here was to give a suitable OF formulation that is distinct from traditional ones in order to accurately mimic the real SNF condition. ==The definition of OF in iHZ565 was different from the previous one in iOR363==, in which the OF only concerned about the function of nutrient sharing [^17]

## Contributions
- As the first metabolic network during the stage of SNF in S. meliloti 1021, the manually curated model iHZ565 provides an overview of the major metabolic properties of the SNF bioprocess in S. meliloti 1021. The predicted SNFrequired essential genes will facilitate understanding of the key functions in SNF and help identify key genes and design experiments for further validation. The model iHZ565 can be used as a knowledge-based framework for better understanding the symbiotic relationship between rhizobia and legumes, ultimately, uncovering the mechanism of nitrogen fixation in bacteroids and providing new strategies to efficiently improve biological nitrogen fixation.<br/><br/>Citation: Zhao H, Li M, Fang K, Chen W, Wang J (2012) In Silico Insights into the Symbiotic Nitrogen Fixation in Sinorhizobium meliloti via Metabolic Reconstruction. PLoS ONE 7(2): e31287. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0031287<br/><br/>Editor: Alejandra Bravo, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Instituto de Biotecnologia, Mexico


## References
[^1]: Masson-Boivin C, Giraud E, Perret X, Batut J (2009) Establishing nitrogenfixing symbiosis with legumes: how many rhizobium recipes? Trends in microbiology 17: 458–466. [[Masson-Boivin_et+al_EstablishingNitrogenfixingSymbiosisWithLegumes_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Masson-Boivin%2C%20C.%20Giraud%2C%20E.%20Perret%2C%20X.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Establishing%20nitrogenfixing%20symbiosis%20with%20legumes%3A%20how%20many%20rhizobium%20recipes%3F%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Masson-Boivin%2C%20C.%20Giraud%2C%20E.%20Perret%2C%20X.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Establishing%20nitrogenfixing%20symbiosis%20with%20legumes%3A%20how%20many%20rhizobium%20recipes%3F%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Masson-Boivin%2C%20C.%20Giraud%2C%20E.%20Perret%2C%20X.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Establishing%20nitrogenfixing%20symbiosis%20with%20legumes%3A%20how%20many%20rhizobium%20recipes%3F%202009)

[^2]: Jones KM, Kobayashi H, Davies BW, Taga ME, Walker GC (2007) How rhizobial symbionts invade plants: the Sinorhizobium–Medicago model. Nature Reviews Microbiology 5: 619–633. [[Jones_et+al_RhizobialSymbiontsInvadePlantsSinorhizobiummedicago_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jones%2C%20K.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Taga%2C%20M.E.%20How%20rhizobial%20symbionts%20invade%20plants%3A%20the%20Sinorhizobium%E2%80%93Medicago%20model%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jones%2C%20K.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Taga%2C%20M.E.%20How%20rhizobial%20symbionts%20invade%20plants%3A%20the%20Sinorhizobium%E2%80%93Medicago%20model%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jones%2C%20K.M.%20Kobayashi%2C%20H.%20Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Taga%2C%20M.E.%20How%20rhizobial%20symbionts%20invade%20plants%3A%20the%20Sinorhizobium%E2%80%93Medicago%20model%202007)

[^3]: Prell J, Poole P (2006) Metabolic changes of rhizobia in legume nodules. Trends in microbiology 14: 161–168. [[Prell_MetabolicChangesRhizobiaLegumeNodules_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolic%20changes%20of%20rhizobia%20in%20legume%20nodules%202006)

[^4]: Lodwig E, Hosie A, Bourdes A, Findlay K, Allaway D, et al. (2003) Amino-acid cycling drives nitrogen fixation in the legume-Rhizobium symbiosis. Nature 422: 722–726. [[Lodwig_et+al_AminoacidCyclingDrivesNitrogenFixation_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Hosie%2C%20A.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Hosie%2C%20A.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Hosie%2C%20A.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Findlay%2C%20K.%20Amino-acid%20cycling%20drives%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20legume-Rhizobium%20symbiosis%202003)

[^5]: Prell J, White J, Bourdes A, Bunnewell S, Bongaerts R, et al. (2009) Legumes regulate Rhizobium bacteroid development and persistence by the supply of branched-chain amino acids. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 106: 12477. [[Prell_et+al_LegumesRegulateRhizobiumBacteroidDevelopment_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20White%2C%20J.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Bunnewell%2C%20S.%20Legumes%20regulate%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%20development%20and%20persistence%20by%20the%20supply%20of%20branched-chain%20amino%20acids%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Prell%2C%20J.%20White%2C%20J.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Bunnewell%2C%20S.%20Legumes%20regulate%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%20development%20and%20persistence%20by%20the%20supply%20of%20branched-chain%20amino%20acids%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Prell%2C%20J.%20White%2C%20J.%20Bourdes%2C%20A.%20Bunnewell%2C%20S.%20Legumes%20regulate%20Rhizobium%20bacteroid%20development%20and%20persistence%20by%20the%20supply%20of%20branched-chain%20amino%20acids%202009)

[^6]: Galibert F, Finan TM, Long SR, Puhler A, Abola P, et al. (2001) The composite genome of the legume symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti. Science 293: 668. [[Galibert_et+al_CompositeGenomeLegumeSymbiontSinorhizobium_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Galibert%2C%20F.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Long%2C%20SR%2C%20Puhler%20A%2C%20Abola%20The%20composite%20genome%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Galibert%2C%20F.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Long%2C%20SR%2C%20Puhler%20A%2C%20Abola%20The%20composite%20genome%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Galibert%2C%20F.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Long%2C%20SR%2C%20Puhler%20A%2C%20Abola%20The%20composite%20genome%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001)

[^7]: Barnett MJ, Fisher RF, Jones T, Komp C, Abola AP, et al. (2001) Nucleotide sequence and predicted functions of the entire Sinorhizobium meliloti pSymA megaplasmid. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 98: 9883. [[Barnett_et+al_NucleotideSequencePredictedFunctionsEntire_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Jones%2C%20T.%20Komp%2C%20C.%20Nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20predicted%20functions%20of%20the%20entire%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20pSymA%20megaplasmid%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Jones%2C%20T.%20Komp%2C%20C.%20Nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20predicted%20functions%20of%20the%20entire%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20pSymA%20megaplasmid%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Jones%2C%20T.%20Komp%2C%20C.%20Nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20predicted%20functions%20of%20the%20entire%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20pSymA%20megaplasmid%202001)

[^8]: Capela D, Barloy-Hubler F, Gouzy J, Bothe G, Ampe F, et al. (2001) Analysis of the chromosome sequence of the legume symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti strain 1021. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 98: 9877. [[Capela_et+al_AnalysisChromosomeSequenceLegumeSymbiont_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Capela%2C%20D.%20Barloy-Hubler%2C%20F.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Bothe%2C%20G.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20chromosome%20sequence%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20strain%201021%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Capela%2C%20D.%20Barloy-Hubler%2C%20F.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Bothe%2C%20G.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20chromosome%20sequence%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20strain%201021%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Capela%2C%20D.%20Barloy-Hubler%2C%20F.%20Gouzy%2C%20J.%20Bothe%2C%20G.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20chromosome%20sequence%20of%20the%20legume%20symbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20strain%201021%202001)

[^9]: Finan TM, Weidner S, Wong K, Buhrmester J, Chain P, et al. (2001) The complete sequence of the 1,683-kb pSymB megaplasmid from the N2-fixing endosymbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 98: 9889. [[Finan_et+al_CompleteSequence1683PsymbMegaplasmid_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Weidner%2C%20S.%20Wong%2C%20K.%20Buhrmester%2C%20J.%20The%20complete%20sequence%20of%20the%201%2C683-kb%20pSymB%20megaplasmid%20from%20the%20N2-fixing%20endosymbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Weidner%2C%20S.%20Wong%2C%20K.%20Buhrmester%2C%20J.%20The%20complete%20sequence%20of%20the%201%2C683-kb%20pSymB%20megaplasmid%20from%20the%20N2-fixing%20endosymbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Weidner%2C%20S.%20Wong%2C%20K.%20Buhrmester%2C%20J.%20The%20complete%20sequence%20of%20the%201%2C683-kb%20pSymB%20megaplasmid%20from%20the%20N2-fixing%20endosymbiont%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%202001)

[^10]: Ampe F, Kiss E, Sabourdy F, Batut J (2003) Transcriptome analysis of Sinorhizobium meliloti during symbiosis. Genome Biol 4: R15. [[Ampe_et+al_TranscriptomeAnalysisSinorhizobiumMelilotiDuring_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ampe%2C%20F.%20Kiss%2C%20E.%20Sabourdy%2C%20F.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Transcriptome%20analysis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20during%20symbiosis%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ampe%2C%20F.%20Kiss%2C%20E.%20Sabourdy%2C%20F.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Transcriptome%20analysis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20during%20symbiosis%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ampe%2C%20F.%20Kiss%2C%20E.%20Sabourdy%2C%20F.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Transcriptome%20analysis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20during%20symbiosis%202003)

[^11]: Becker A, Berges H, Krol E, Bruand C, Ruberg S, et al. (2004) Global changes in gene expression in Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 under microoxic and symbiotic conditions. Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 17: 292–303. [[Becker_et+al_GlobalChangesGeneExpressionSinorhizobium_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becker%2C%20A.%20Berges%2C%20H.%20Krol%2C%20E.%20Bruand%2C%20C.%20Global%20changes%20in%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20under%20microoxic%20and%20symbiotic%20conditions%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20A.%20Berges%2C%20H.%20Krol%2C%20E.%20Bruand%2C%20C.%20Global%20changes%20in%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20under%20microoxic%20and%20symbiotic%20conditions%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becker%2C%20A.%20Berges%2C%20H.%20Krol%2C%20E.%20Bruand%2C%20C.%20Global%20changes%20in%20gene%20expression%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20under%20microoxic%20and%20symbiotic%20conditions%202004)

[^12]: Capela D, Filipe C, Bobik C, Batut J, Bruand C (2006) Sinorhizobium meliloti differentiation during symbiosis with alfalfa: a transcriptomic dissection. Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 19: 363–372. [[Capela_et+al_SinorhizobiumMelilotiDifferentiationDuringSymbiosis_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Capela%2C%20D.%20Filipe%2C%20C.%20Bobik%2C%20C.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20differentiation%20during%20symbiosis%20with%20alfalfa%3A%20a%20transcriptomic%20dissection%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Capela%2C%20D.%20Filipe%2C%20C.%20Bobik%2C%20C.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20differentiation%20during%20symbiosis%20with%20alfalfa%3A%20a%20transcriptomic%20dissection%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Capela%2C%20D.%20Filipe%2C%20C.%20Bobik%2C%20C.%20Batut%2C%20J.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20differentiation%20during%20symbiosis%20with%20alfalfa%3A%20a%20transcriptomic%20dissection%202006)

[^13]: Djordjevic MA, Chen HC, Natera S, Van Noorden G, Menzel C, et al. (2003) A global analysis of protein expression profiles in Sinorhizobium meliloti: discovery of bacteroids [35]. As reported, microaerobic environment is necessary for SNF, the oxygen uptake rate was limited to 1.26 mmol/gDW/hr [70]. Other exchanged compounds included iron, sulfate, inositol, phosphate, homocitrate, magnesium, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, and water [14,32,71–74]. Furthermore, the inositol sink was limited the uptake rate of 0.01 mmol/gDW/ hr because the inositol was observed in bacteroids, but it is unknown whether it is supplied by the plant or synthesized inside the bacteroids. The detailed constraints on each of reaction are listed in File S1. [[Djordjevic_et+al_GlobalAnalysisProteinExpressionProfiles_2003]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Djordjevic%2C%20M.A.%20Chen%2C%20H.C.%20Natera%2C%20S.%20Van%20Noorden%2C%20G.%20A%20global%20analysis%20of%20protein%20expression%20profiles%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%3A%20discovery%20of%20bacteroids%20%5B35%5D.%20As%20reported%2C%20microaerobic%20environment%20is%20necessary%20for%20SNF%2C%20the%20oxygen%20uptake%20rate%20was%20limited%20to%201.26%20mmol/gDW/hr%20%5B70%5D.%20Other%20exchanged%20compounds%20included%20iron%2C%20sulfate%2C%20inositol%2C%20phosphate%2C%20homocitrate%2C%20magnesium%2C%20hydrogen%2C%20carbon%20dioxide%2C%20and%20water%20%5B14%2C32%2C71%E2%80%9374%5D.%20Furthermore%2C%20the%20inositol%20sink%20was%20limited%20the%20uptake%20rate%20of%200.01%20mmol/gDW/%20hr%20because%20the%20inositol%20was%20observed%20in%20bacteroids%2C%20but%20it%20is%20unknown%20whether%20it%20is%20supplied%20by%20the%20plant%20or%20synthesized%20inside%20the%20bacteroids.%20The%20detailed%20constraints%20on%20each%20of%20reaction%20are%20listed%20in%20File%20S1%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Djordjevic%2C%20M.A.%20Chen%2C%20H.C.%20Natera%2C%20S.%20Van%20Noorden%2C%20G.%20A%20global%20analysis%20of%20protein%20expression%20profiles%20in%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%3A%20discovery%20of%20bacteroids%20%5B35%5D.%20As%20reported%2C%20microaerobic%20environment%20is%20necessary%20for%20SNF%2C%20the%20oxygen%20uptake%20rate%20was%20limited%20to%201.26%20mmol/gDW/hr%20%5B70%5D.%20Other%20exchanged%20compounds%20included%20iron%2C%20sulfate%2C%20inositol%2C%20phosphate%2C%20homocitrate%2C%20magnesium%2C%20hydrogen%2C%20carbon%20dioxide%2C%20and%20water%20%5B14%2C32%2C71%E2%80%9374%5D.%20Furthermore%2C%20the%20inositol%20sink%20was%20limited%20the%20uptake%20rate%20of%200.01%20mmol/gDW/%20hr%20because%20the%20inositol%20was%20observed%20in%20bacteroids%2C%20but%20it%20is%20unknown%20whether%20it%20is%20supplied%20by%20the%20plant%20or%20synthesized%20inside%20the%20bacteroids.%20The%20detailed%20constraints%20on%20each%20of%20reaction%20are%20listed%20in%20File%20S1%202003) 

[^14]: Djordjevic MA (2004) Sinorhizobium meliloti metabolism in the root nodule: A proteomic perspective. Proteomics 4: 1859–1872. [[Djordjevic_SinorhizobiumMelilotiMetabolismRootNodule_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Djordjevic%2C%20M.A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20metabolism%20in%20the%20root%20nodule%3A%20A%20proteomic%20perspective%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Djordjevic%2C%20M.A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20metabolism%20in%20the%20root%20nodule%3A%20A%20proteomic%20perspective%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Djordjevic%2C%20M.A.%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20metabolism%20in%20the%20root%20nodule%3A%20A%20proteomic%20perspective%202004)

[^15]: Barsch A, Patschkowski T, Niehaus K (2004) Comprehensive metabolite profiling of Sinorhizobium meliloti using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Functional & integrative genomics 4: 219–230. [[Barsch_et+al_ComprehensiveMetaboliteProfilingSinorhizobiumMeliloti_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barsch%2C%20A.%20Patschkowski%2C%20T.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Comprehensive%20metabolite%20profiling%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20using%20gas%20chromatography-mass%20spectrometry%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barsch%2C%20A.%20Patschkowski%2C%20T.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Comprehensive%20metabolite%20profiling%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20using%20gas%20chromatography-mass%20spectrometry%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barsch%2C%20A.%20Patschkowski%2C%20T.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Comprehensive%20metabolite%20profiling%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20using%20gas%20chromatography-mass%20spectrometry%202004)

[^16]: Barnett MJ, Toman CJ, Fisher RF, Long SR (2004) A dual-genome Symbiosis Chip for coordinate study of signal exchange and development in a prokaryotehost interaction. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 101: 16636–16641. [[Barnett_et+al_DualgenomeSymbiosisChipCoordinateStudy_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Toman%2C%20C.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Long%2C%20SR%20A%20dual-genome%20Symbiosis%20Chip%20for%20coordinate%20study%20of%20signal%20exchange%20and%20development%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Toman%2C%20C.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Long%2C%20SR%20A%20dual-genome%20Symbiosis%20Chip%20for%20coordinate%20study%20of%20signal%20exchange%20and%20development%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Toman%2C%20C.J.%20Fisher%2C%20R.F.%20Long%2C%20SR%20A%20dual-genome%20Symbiosis%20Chip%20for%20coordinate%20study%20of%20signal%20exchange%20and%20development%202004)

[^17]: Resendis-Antonio O, Reed JL, Encarnacion S, Collado-Vides J, Palsson BO (2007) Metabolic reconstruction and modeling of nitrogen fixation in Rhizobium etli. PLoS Comput Biol 3: 1887–1895. [[Resendis-Antonio_et+al_MetabolicReconstructionModelingNitrogenFixation_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Resendis-Antonio%2C%20O.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Collado-Vides%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20modeling%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Resendis-Antonio%2C%20O.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Collado-Vides%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20modeling%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Resendis-Antonio%2C%20O.%20Reed%2C%20J.L.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Collado-Vides%2C%20J.%20Metabolic%20reconstruction%20and%20modeling%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Rhizobium%20etli%202007)

[^18]: Reed JL, Vo TD, Schilling CH, Palsson BO (2003) An expanded genome-scale model of Escherichia coli K-12 (iJR904 GSM/GPR). Genome Biol 4: R54. [[Reed_ExpandedGenomescaleModelEscherichiaColi_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Reed%20JL%20Vo%20TD%20Schilling%20CH%20Palsson%20BO%202003%20An%20expanded%20genomescale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K12%20iJR904%20GSMGPR%20Genome%20Biol%204%20R54) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Reed%20JL%20Vo%20TD%20Schilling%20CH%20Palsson%20BO%202003%20An%20expanded%20genomescale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K12%20iJR904%20GSMGPR%20Genome%20Biol%204%20R54) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Reed%20JL%20Vo%20TD%20Schilling%20CH%20Palsson%20BO%202003%20An%20expanded%20genomescale%20model%20of%20Escherichia%20coli%20K12%20iJR904%20GSMGPR%20Genome%20Biol%204%20R54)

[^19]: Edwards JS, Covert M, Palsson B (2002) Metabolic modelling of microbes: the flux-balance approach. Environ Microbiol 4: 133–140. [[Edwards_et+al_MetabolicModellingMicrobesFluxbalanceApproach_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20the%20flux-balance%20approach%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20the%20flux-balance%20approach%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Edwards%2C%20J.S.%20Covert%2C%20M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.%20Metabolic%20modelling%20of%20microbes%3A%20the%20flux-balance%20approach%202002)

[^20]: Lee JM, Gianchandani EP, Papin JA (2006) Flux balance analysis in the era of metabolomics. Brief Bioinform 7: 140–150. [[Lee_et+al_FluxBalanceAnalysisMetabolomics_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lee%2C%20J.M.%20Gianchandani%2C%20E.P.%20Papin%2C%20J.A.%20Flux%20balance%20analysis%20in%20the%20era%20of%20metabolomics%202006)

[^21]: Schuetz R, Kuepfer L, Sauer U (2007) Systematic evaluation of objective functions for predicting intracellular fluxes in Escherichia coli. Mol Syst Biol 3: 119. [[Schuetz_et+al_SystematicEvaluationObjectiveFunctionsPredicting_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schuetz%2C%20R.%20Kuepfer%2C%20L.%20Sauer%2C%20U.%20Systematic%20evaluation%20of%20objective%20functions%20for%20predicting%20intracellular%20fluxes%20in%20Escherichia%20coli%202007)

[^22]: Knorr AL, Jain R, Srivastava R (2007) Bayesian-based selection of metabolic objective functions. Bioinformatics 23: 351–357. [[Knorr_et+al_BayesianbasedSelectionMetabolicObjectiveFunctions_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Knorr%2C%20A.L.%20Jain%2C%20R.%20Srivastava%2C%20R.%20Bayesian-based%20selection%20of%20metabolic%20objective%20functions%202007)

[^23]: Zhou JCYTTaJMV (1985) Reproductive capacity of bacteroids in nodules of Trifolium repens L. and Glycine max (L.) Merr. Planta V163: 473–482. [[Jcyttajmv_ReproductiveCapacityBacteroidsNodulesTrifolium_1985]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=JCYTTaJMV%2C%20Zhou%20Reproductive%20capacity%20of%20bacteroids%20in%20nodules%20of%20Trifolium%20repens%20L.%20and%20Glycine%20max%20%28L.%29%20Merr%201985) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=JCYTTaJMV%2C%20Zhou%20Reproductive%20capacity%20of%20bacteroids%20in%20nodules%20of%20Trifolium%20repens%20L.%20and%20Glycine%20max%20%28L.%29%20Merr%201985) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=JCYTTaJMV%2C%20Zhou%20Reproductive%20capacity%20of%20bacteroids%20in%20nodules%20of%20Trifolium%20repens%20L.%20and%20Glycine%20max%20%28L.%29%20Merr%201985)

[^24]: Poole P, Allaway D (2000) Carbon and nitrogen metabolism in Rhizobium. Advances in microbial physiology 43: 117–163. [[Poole_CarbonNitrogenMetabolism_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Poole%2C%20P.%20Allaway%2C%20D.%20Carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Poole%2C%20P.%20Allaway%2C%20D.%20Carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Poole%2C%20P.%20Allaway%2C%20D.%20Carbon%20and%20nitrogen%20metabolism%202000)

[^25]: De Bruijn F, Rossbach S, Schneider M, Ratet P, Messmer S, et al. (1989) Rhizobium meliloti 1021 has three differentially regulated loci involved in glutamine biosynthesis, none of which is essential for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Journal of bacteriology 171: 1673. [[de_Bruijn_et+al_RhizobiumMeliloti1021ThreeDifferentially_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=F%2C%20De%20Bruijn%20S%2C%20Rossbach%20M%2C%20Schneider%20P%2C%20Ratet%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20has%20three%20differentially%20regulated%20loci%20involved%20in%20glutamine%20biosynthesis%2C%20none%20of%20which%20is%20essential%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=F%2C%20De%20Bruijn%20S%2C%20Rossbach%20M%2C%20Schneider%20P%2C%20Ratet%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20has%20three%20differentially%20regulated%20loci%20involved%20in%20glutamine%20biosynthesis%2C%20none%20of%20which%20is%20essential%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=F%2C%20De%20Bruijn%20S%2C%20Rossbach%20M%2C%20Schneider%20P%2C%20Ratet%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%201021%20has%20three%20differentially%20regulated%20loci%20involved%20in%20glutamine%20biosynthesis%2C%20none%20of%20which%20is%20essential%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201989)

[^26]: Fujihara S, Abe H, Minakawa Y, Akao S, Yoneyama T (1994) Polyamines in nodules from various plant-microbe symbiotic associations. Plant and Cell Physiology 35: 1127. [[Fujihara_et+al_PolyaminesNodulesFromVariousPlantmicrobe_1994]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Fujihara%2C%20S.%20Abe%2C%20H.%20Minakawa%2C%20Y.%20Akao%2C%20S.%20Polyamines%20in%20nodules%20from%20various%20plant-microbe%20symbiotic%20associations%201994) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Fujihara%2C%20S.%20Abe%2C%20H.%20Minakawa%2C%20Y.%20Akao%2C%20S.%20Polyamines%20in%20nodules%20from%20various%20plant-microbe%20symbiotic%20associations%201994) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Fujihara%2C%20S.%20Abe%2C%20H.%20Minakawa%2C%20Y.%20Akao%2C%20S.%20Polyamines%20in%20nodules%20from%20various%20plant-microbe%20symbiotic%20associations%201994)

[^27]: Tyerman SD, Whitehead LF, Day DA (2001) Polyamines as potential regulators of nutrient exchange across the peribacteroid membrane in soybean root nodules. Functional Plant Biology 28: 677–683. [[Tyerman_et+al_PolyaminesPotentialRegulatorsNutrientExchange_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Whitehead%2C%20L.F.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Polyamines%20as%20potential%20regulators%20of%20nutrient%20exchange%20across%20the%20peribacteroid%20membrane%20in%20soybean%20root%20nodules%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Whitehead%2C%20L.F.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Polyamines%20as%20potential%20regulators%20of%20nutrient%20exchange%20across%20the%20peribacteroid%20membrane%20in%20soybean%20root%20nodules%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Tyerman%2C%20S.D.%20Whitehead%2C%20L.F.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Polyamines%20as%20potential%20regulators%20of%20nutrient%20exchange%20across%20the%20peribacteroid%20membrane%20in%20soybean%20root%20nodules%202001)

[^28]: Wang CX, Saldanha M, Sheng XY, Shelswell KJ, Walsh KT, et al. (2007) Roles of poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) and glycogen in symbiosis of Sinorhizobium meliloti with Medicago sp. Microbiology-Sgm 153: 388–398. [[Wang_et+al_RolesPoly3hydroxybutyratephbGlycogenSymbiosis_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Wang%2C%20C.X.%20Saldanha%2C%20M.%20Sheng%2C%20X.Y.%20Shelswell%2C%20K.J.%20Roles%20of%20poly-3-hydroxybutyrate%20%28PHB%29%20and%20glycogen%20in%20symbiosis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20with%20Medicago%20sp%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Wang%2C%20C.X.%20Saldanha%2C%20M.%20Sheng%2C%20X.Y.%20Shelswell%2C%20K.J.%20Roles%20of%20poly-3-hydroxybutyrate%20%28PHB%29%20and%20glycogen%20in%20symbiosis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20with%20Medicago%20sp%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Wang%2C%20C.X.%20Saldanha%2C%20M.%20Sheng%2C%20X.Y.%20Shelswell%2C%20K.J.%20Roles%20of%20poly-3-hydroxybutyrate%20%28PHB%29%20and%20glycogen%20in%20symbiosis%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20with%20Medicago%20sp%202007)

[^29]: Einsle O, Tezcan FA, Andrade SLA, Schmid B, Yoshida M, et al. (2002) Nitrogenase MoFe-protein at 1.16 resolution: a central ligand in the FeMocofactor. Science 297: 1696. [[Einsle_et+al_NitrogenaseMofeprotein116ResolutionCentral_2002]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Einsle%2C%20O.%20Tezcan%2C%20F.A.%20Andrade%2C%20S.L.A.%20Schmid%2C%20B.%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe-protein%20at%201.16%20resolution%3A%20a%20central%20ligand%20in%20the%20FeMocofactor%202002) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Einsle%2C%20O.%20Tezcan%2C%20F.A.%20Andrade%2C%20S.L.A.%20Schmid%2C%20B.%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe-protein%20at%201.16%20resolution%3A%20a%20central%20ligand%20in%20the%20FeMocofactor%202002) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Einsle%2C%20O.%20Tezcan%2C%20F.A.%20Andrade%2C%20S.L.A.%20Schmid%2C%20B.%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe-protein%20at%201.16%20resolution%3A%20a%20central%20ligand%20in%20the%20FeMocofactor%202002)

[^30]: Hu Y, Fay AW, Lee CC, Yoshizawa J, Ribbe MW (2008) Assembly of Nitrogenase MoFe Protein. Biochemistry 47: 3973–3981. [[Hu_et+al_AssemblyNitrogenaseMofeProtein_2008]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hu%2C%20Y.%20Fay%2C%20A.W.%20Lee%2C%20C.C.%20Yoshizawa%2C%20J.%20Assembly%20of%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe%20Protein%202008) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hu%2C%20Y.%20Fay%2C%20A.W.%20Lee%2C%20C.C.%20Yoshizawa%2C%20J.%20Assembly%20of%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe%20Protein%202008) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hu%2C%20Y.%20Fay%2C%20A.W.%20Lee%2C%20C.C.%20Yoshizawa%2C%20J.%20Assembly%20of%20Nitrogenase%20MoFe%20Protein%202008)

[^31]: Delgado MJ, Tresierra-Ayala A, Talbi C, Bedmar EJ (2006) Functional characterization of the Bradyrhizobium japonicum modA and modB genes involved in molybdenum transport. Microbiology 152: 199. [[Delgado_et+al_FunctionalCharacterizationBradyrhizobiumJaponicumModa_2006]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Delgado%2C%20M.J.%20Tresierra-Ayala%2C%20A.%20Talbi%2C%20C.%20Bedmar%2C%20E.J.%20Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20modA%20and%20modB%20genes%20involved%20in%20molybdenum%20transport%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Delgado%2C%20M.J.%20Tresierra-Ayala%2C%20A.%20Talbi%2C%20C.%20Bedmar%2C%20E.J.%20Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%20modA%20and%20modB%20genes%20involved%20in%20molybdenum%20transport%202006) 

[^32]: Hakoyama T, Niimi K, Watanabe H, Tabata R, Matsubara J, et al. (2009) Host plant genome overcomes the lack of a bacterial gene for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Nature 462: 514–517. [[Hakoyama_et+al_HostPlantGenomeOvercomesLack_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hakoyama%2C%20T.%20Niimi%2C%20K.%20Watanabe%2C%20H.%20Tabata%2C%20R.%20Host%20plant%20genome%20overcomes%20the%20lack%20of%20a%20bacterial%20gene%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hakoyama%2C%20T.%20Niimi%2C%20K.%20Watanabe%2C%20H.%20Tabata%2C%20R.%20Host%20plant%20genome%20overcomes%20the%20lack%20of%20a%20bacterial%20gene%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hakoyama%2C%20T.%20Niimi%2C%20K.%20Watanabe%2C%20H.%20Tabata%2C%20R.%20Host%20plant%20genome%20overcomes%20the%20lack%20of%20a%20bacterial%20gene%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%202009)

[^33]: O’Brian MR (1996) Heme synthesis in the rhizobium-legume symbiosis: a palette for bacterial and eukaryotic pigments. Journal of bacteriology 178: 2471. [[O_HemeSynthesisRhizobiumlegumeSymbiosisPalette_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=O%E2%80%99Brian%2C%20M.R.%20Heme%20synthesis%20in%20the%20rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%3A%20a%20palette%20for%20bacterial%20and%20eukaryotic%20pigments%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=O%E2%80%99Brian%2C%20M.R.%20Heme%20synthesis%20in%20the%20rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%3A%20a%20palette%20for%20bacterial%20and%20eukaryotic%20pigments%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=O%E2%80%99Brian%2C%20M.R.%20Heme%20synthesis%20in%20the%20rhizobium-legume%20symbiosis%3A%20a%20palette%20for%20bacterial%20and%20eukaryotic%20pigments%201996)

[^34]: Ott T, van Dongen JT (2005) Symbiotic leghemoglobins are crucial for nitrogen fixation in legume root nodules but not for general plant growth and development. Current biology 15: 531–535. [[Ott_SymbioticLeghemoglobinsCrucialNitrogenFixation_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ott%2C%20T.%20van%20Dongen%2C%20J.T.%20Symbiotic%20leghemoglobins%20are%20crucial%20for%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20legume%20root%20nodules%20but%20not%20for%20general%20plant%20growth%20and%20development%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ott%2C%20T.%20van%20Dongen%2C%20J.T.%20Symbiotic%20leghemoglobins%20are%20crucial%20for%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20legume%20root%20nodules%20but%20not%20for%20general%20plant%20growth%20and%20development%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ott%2C%20T.%20van%20Dongen%2C%20J.T.%20Symbiotic%20leghemoglobins%20are%20crucial%20for%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20legume%20root%20nodules%20but%20not%20for%20general%20plant%20growth%20and%20development%202005)

[^35]: White J, Prell J, James EK, Poole P (2007) Nutrient sharing between symbionts. Plant Physiol 144: 604–614. [[White_NutrientSharingBetweenSymbionts_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=White%20J%20Prell%20J%20James%20EK%20Poole%20P%202007%20Nutrient%20sharing%20between%20symbionts%20Plant%20Physiol%20144%20604614) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=White%20J%20Prell%20J%20James%20EK%20Poole%20P%202007%20Nutrient%20sharing%20between%20symbionts%20Plant%20Physiol%20144%20604614) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=White%20J%20Prell%20J%20James%20EK%20Poole%20P%202007%20Nutrient%20sharing%20between%20symbionts%20Plant%20Physiol%20144%20604614)

[^36]: Irigoyen JJ, Sanchez-Diaz M, Emerich DW (1990) Carbon Metabolism Enzymes of Rhizobium meliloti Cultures and Bacteroids and Their Distribution within Alfalfa Nodules. Appl Environ Microbiol 56: 2587–2589. [[Irigoyen_et+al_CarbonMetabolismEnzymesRhizobiumMeliloti_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Irigoyen%2C%20J.J.%20Sanchez-Diaz%2C%20M.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20Enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20Cultures%20and%20Bacteroids%20and%20Their%20Distribution%20within%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Irigoyen%2C%20J.J.%20Sanchez-Diaz%2C%20M.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20Enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20Cultures%20and%20Bacteroids%20and%20Their%20Distribution%20within%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Irigoyen%2C%20J.J.%20Sanchez-Diaz%2C%20M.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20Carbon%20Metabolism%20Enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20Cultures%20and%20Bacteroids%20and%20Their%20Distribution%20within%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%201990)

[^37]: Zheng L, White RH, Cash VL, Jack RF, Dean DR (1993) Cysteine desulfurase activity indicates a role for NIFS in metallocluster biosynthesis. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 90: 2754. [[Zheng_CysteineDesulfuraseActivityIndicatesRole_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zheng%20L%20White%20RH%20Cash%20VL%20Jack%20RF%20Dean%20DR%201993%20Cysteine%20desulfurase%20activity%20indicates%20a%20role%20for%20NIFS%20in%20metallocluster%20biosynthesis%20Proceedings%20of%20the%20National%20Academy%20of%20Sciences%20of%20the%20United%20States%20of%20America%2090%202754) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zheng%20L%20White%20RH%20Cash%20VL%20Jack%20RF%20Dean%20DR%201993%20Cysteine%20desulfurase%20activity%20indicates%20a%20role%20for%20NIFS%20in%20metallocluster%20biosynthesis%20Proceedings%20of%20the%20National%20Academy%20of%20Sciences%20of%20the%20United%20States%20of%20America%2090%202754) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zheng%20L%20White%20RH%20Cash%20VL%20Jack%20RF%20Dean%20DR%201993%20Cysteine%20desulfurase%20activity%20indicates%20a%20role%20for%20NIFS%20in%20metallocluster%20biosynthesis%20Proceedings%20of%20the%20National%20Academy%20of%20Sciences%20of%20the%20United%20States%20of%20America%2090%202754)

[^38]: Sarma AD, Emerich DW (2006) A comparative proteomic evaluation of culture grown vs nodule isolated Bradyrhizobium japonicum. Proteomics 6: 3008–3028. [[Sarma_ComparativeProteomicEvaluationCultureGrown_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20vs%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20vs%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Sarma%2C%20A.D.%20Emerich%2C%20D.W.%20A%20comparative%20proteomic%20evaluation%20of%20culture%20grown%20vs%20nodule%20isolated%20Bradyrhizobium%20japonicum%202006)

[^39]: Ramirez-Trujillo J, Encarnacion S, Salazar E, De Los Santos AG, Dunn M, et al. (2007) Functional characterization of the Sinorhizobium meliloti acetate metabolism genes aceA, SMc00767, and glcB. Journal of bacteriology 189: 5875. [[Ramirez-Trujillo_et+al_FunctionalCharacterizationSinorhizobiumMelilotiAcetate_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ramirez-Trujillo%2C%20J.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Salazar%2C%20E.%20De%20Los%20Santos%2C%20A.G.%20Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20acetate%20metabolism%20genes%20aceA%2C%20SMc00767%2C%20and%20glcB%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ramirez-Trujillo%2C%20J.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Salazar%2C%20E.%20De%20Los%20Santos%2C%20A.G.%20Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20acetate%20metabolism%20genes%20aceA%2C%20SMc00767%2C%20and%20glcB%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ramirez-Trujillo%2C%20J.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Salazar%2C%20E.%20De%20Los%20Santos%2C%20A.G.%20Functional%20characterization%20of%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20acetate%20metabolism%20genes%20aceA%2C%20SMc00767%2C%20and%20glcB%202007)

[^40]: Cevallos MA, Encarnacion S, Leija A, Mora Y, Mora J (1996) Genetic and physiological characterization of a Rhizobium etli mutant strain unable to synthesize poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate. J Bacteriol 178: 1646–1654. [[Cevallos_et+al_GeneticPhysiologicalCharacterizationRhizobiumEtli_1996]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Cevallos%2C%20M.A.%20Encarnacion%2C%20S.%20Leija%2C%20A.%20Mora%2C%20Y.%20Genetic%20and%20physiological%20characterization%20of%20a%20Rhizobium%20etli%20mutant%20strain%20unable%20to%20synthesize%20poly-beta-hydroxybutyrate%201996)

[^41]: Driscoll BT, Finan TM (1993) NAD+-dependent malic enzyme of Rhizobium meliloti is required for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Molecular microbiology 7: 865–873. [[Driscoll_NaddependentMalicEnzymeRhizobiumMeliloti_1993]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20NAD%2B-dependent%20malic%20enzyme%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20required%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201993) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20NAD%2B-dependent%20malic%20enzyme%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20required%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201993) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20NAD%2B-dependent%20malic%20enzyme%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20is%20required%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%201993)

[^42]: Hertz-Fowler C, Peacock CS, Wood V, Aslett M, Kerhornou A, et al. (2004) GeneDB: a resource for prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. Nucleic Acids Res 32: D339–343. [[Hertz-Fowler_et+al_GenedbResourceProkaryoticEukaryoticOrganisms_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hertz-Fowler%2C%20C.%20Peacock%2C%20C.S.%20Wood%2C%20V.%20Aslett%2C%20M.%20GeneDB%3A%20a%20resource%20for%20prokaryotic%20and%20eukaryotic%20organisms%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hertz-Fowler%2C%20C.%20Peacock%2C%20C.S.%20Wood%2C%20V.%20Aslett%2C%20M.%20GeneDB%3A%20a%20resource%20for%20prokaryotic%20and%20eukaryotic%20organisms%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hertz-Fowler%2C%20C.%20Peacock%2C%20C.S.%20Wood%2C%20V.%20Aslett%2C%20M.%20GeneDB%3A%20a%20resource%20for%20prokaryotic%20and%20eukaryotic%20organisms%202004)

[^43]: Zhang R, Lin Y (2009) DEG 5.0, a database of essential genes in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Nucleic Acids Res 37: D455–458. [[Zhang_Deg50DatabaseEssentialGenes_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Zhang%2C%20R.%20Lin%2C%20Y.%20DEG%205.0%2C%20a%20database%20of%20essential%20genes%20in%20both%20prokaryotes%20and%20eukaryotes%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Zhang%2C%20R.%20Lin%2C%20Y.%20DEG%205.0%2C%20a%20database%20of%20essential%20genes%20in%20both%20prokaryotes%20and%20eukaryotes%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Zhang%2C%20R.%20Lin%2C%20Y.%20DEG%205.0%2C%20a%20database%20of%20essential%20genes%20in%20both%20prokaryotes%20and%20eukaryotes%202009)

[^44]: Watson RJ (1990) Analysis of the C4-dicarboxylate transport genes of Rhizobium meliloti: nucleotide sequence and deduced products of dctA, dctB, and dctD. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 3: 174–181. [[Watson_AnalysisC4dicarboxylateTransportGenesRhizobium_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Watson%2C%20R.J.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20C4-dicarboxylate%20transport%20genes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%3A%20nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20deduced%20products%20of%20dctA%2C%20dctB%2C%20and%20dctD%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Watson%2C%20R.J.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20C4-dicarboxylate%20transport%20genes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%3A%20nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20deduced%20products%20of%20dctA%2C%20dctB%2C%20and%20dctD%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Watson%2C%20R.J.%20Analysis%20of%20the%20C4-dicarboxylate%20transport%20genes%20of%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%3A%20nucleotide%20sequence%20and%20deduced%20products%20of%20dctA%2C%20dctB%2C%20and%20dctD%201990)

[^45]: Driscoll BT, Finan TM (1997) Properties of NAD(+)- and NADP(+)-dependent malic enzymes of Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) meliloti and differential expression of their genes in nitrogen-fixing bacteroids. Microbiology-Sgm 143: 489–498. [[Driscoll_PropertiesNadNadpdependentMalicEnzymes_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Properties%20of%20NAD%28%2B%29-%20and%20NADP%28%2B%29-dependent%20malic%20enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20%28Sinorhizobium%29%20meliloti%20and%20differential%20expression%20of%20their%20genes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Properties%20of%20NAD%28%2B%29-%20and%20NADP%28%2B%29-dependent%20malic%20enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20%28Sinorhizobium%29%20meliloti%20and%20differential%20expression%20of%20their%20genes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Finan%2C%20T.M.%20Properties%20of%20NAD%28%2B%29-%20and%20NADP%28%2B%29-dependent%20malic%20enzymes%20of%20Rhizobium%20%28Sinorhizobium%29%20meliloti%20and%20differential%20expression%20of%20their%20genes%20in%20nitrogen-fixing%20bacteroids%201997)

[^46]: Hirsch AM, Smith CA (1987) Effects of Rhizobium-Meliloti nif and fix Mutants on Alfalfa Root Nodule Development. Journal of bacteriology 169: 1137–1146. [[Hirsch_EffectsRhizobiummelilotiMutantsAlfalfaRoot_1987]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Smith%2C%20C.A.%20Effects%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20nif%20and%20fix%20Mutants%20on%20Alfalfa%20Root%20Nodule%20Development%201987) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Smith%2C%20C.A.%20Effects%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20nif%20and%20fix%20Mutants%20on%20Alfalfa%20Root%20Nodule%20Development%201987) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Smith%2C%20C.A.%20Effects%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20nif%20and%20fix%20Mutants%20on%20Alfalfa%20Root%20Nodule%20Development%201987)

[^47]: de Bruijn FJ, Rossbach S, Bruand C, Parrish JR (2006) A highly conserved Sinorhizobium meliloti operon is induced microaerobically via the FixLJ system and by nitric oxide (NO) via NnrR. Environmental Microbiology 8: 1371–1381. [[De_HighlyConservedSinorhizobiumMelilotiOperon_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=de%20Bruijn%20FJ%20Rossbach%20S%20Bruand%20C%20Parrish%20JR%202006%20A%20highly%20conserved%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20operon%20is%20induced%20microaerobically%20via%20the%20FixLJ%20system%20and%20by%20nitric%20oxide%20NO%20via%20NnrR%20Environmental%20Microbiology%208%2013711381) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=de%20Bruijn%20FJ%20Rossbach%20S%20Bruand%20C%20Parrish%20JR%202006%20A%20highly%20conserved%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20operon%20is%20induced%20microaerobically%20via%20the%20FixLJ%20system%20and%20by%20nitric%20oxide%20NO%20via%20NnrR%20Environmental%20Microbiology%208%2013711381) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=de%20Bruijn%20FJ%20Rossbach%20S%20Bruand%20C%20Parrish%20JR%202006%20A%20highly%20conserved%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20operon%20is%20induced%20microaerobically%20via%20the%20FixLJ%20system%20and%20by%20nitric%20oxide%20NO%20via%20NnrR%20Environmental%20Microbiology%208%2013711381)

[^48]: Kahn D, David M, Domergue O, Daveran ML, Ghai J, et al. (1989) RhizobiumMeliloti fixGHI Sequence Predicts Involvement of a Specific Cation Pump in Symbiotic Nitrogen-Fixation. Journal of bacteriology 171: 929–939. [[Kahn_et+al_RhizobiummelilotiFixghiSequencePredictsInvolvement_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kahn%2C%20D.%20David%2C%20M.%20Domergue%2C%20O.%20Daveran%2C%20M.L.%20RhizobiumMeliloti%20fixGHI%20Sequence%20Predicts%20Involvement%20of%20a%20Specific%20Cation%20Pump%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kahn%2C%20D.%20David%2C%20M.%20Domergue%2C%20O.%20Daveran%2C%20M.L.%20RhizobiumMeliloti%20fixGHI%20Sequence%20Predicts%20Involvement%20of%20a%20Specific%20Cation%20Pump%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kahn%2C%20D.%20David%2C%20M.%20Domergue%2C%20O.%20Daveran%2C%20M.L.%20RhizobiumMeliloti%20fixGHI%20Sequence%20Predicts%20Involvement%20of%20a%20Specific%20Cation%20Pump%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201989)

[^49]: Davies BW, Walker GC (2007) Identification of novel Sinorhizobium meliloti mutants compromised for oxidative stress protection and symbiosis. Journal of bacteriology 189: 2110–2113. [[Davies_IdentificationNovelSinorhizobiumMelilotiMutants_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Identification%20of%20novel%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20mutants%20compromised%20for%20oxidative%20stress%20protection%20and%20symbiosis%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Identification%20of%20novel%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20mutants%20compromised%20for%20oxidative%20stress%20protection%20and%20symbiosis%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Identification%20of%20novel%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20mutants%20compromised%20for%20oxidative%20stress%20protection%20and%20symbiosis%202007)

[^50]: Dymov SI, Meek DJJ, Steven B, Driscoll BT (2004) Insertion of transpoon Tn5tac1 in the Sinorhizobium meliloti malate dehydrogenase (mdh) gene results in conditional polar effects on downstream TCA cycle genes. Molecular PlantMicrobe Interactions 17: 1318–1327. [[Dymov_et+al_InsertionTranspoonTn5tac1SinorhizobiumMeliloti_2004]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dymov%2C%20S.I.%20Meek%2C%20D.J.J.%20Steven%2C%20B.%20Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Insertion%20of%20transpoon%20Tn5tac1%20in%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20malate%20dehydrogenase%20%28mdh%29%20gene%20results%20in%20conditional%20polar%20effects%20on%20downstream%20TCA%20cycle%20genes.%20Molecular%20PlantMicrobe%20Interactions%2017%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Dymov%2C%20S.I.%20Meek%2C%20D.J.J.%20Steven%2C%20B.%20Driscoll%2C%20B.T.%20Insertion%20of%20transpoon%20Tn5tac1%20in%20the%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20malate%20dehydrogenase%20%28mdh%29%20gene%20results%20in%20conditional%20polar%20effects%20on%20downstream%20TCA%20cycle%20genes.%20Molecular%20PlantMicrobe%20Interactions%2017%202004) 

[^51]: Kapp D, Niehaus K, Quandt J, Muller P, Puhler A (1990) Cooperative Action of Rhizobium-Meliloti Nodulation and Infection Mutants during the Process of Forming Mixed Infected Alfalfa Nodules. Plant Cell 2: 139–151. [[Kapp_et+al_PuhlerA_1990]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kapp%2C%20D.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Quandt%2C%20J.%20Muller%2C%20P.%20Puhler%20A%201990) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kapp%2C%20D.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Quandt%2C%20J.%20Muller%2C%20P.%20Puhler%20A%201990) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kapp%2C%20D.%20Niehaus%2C%20K.%20Quandt%2C%20J.%20Muller%2C%20P.%20Puhler%20A%201990)

[^52]: Davies BW, Walker GC (2007) Disruption of sitA compromises Sinorhizobium meliloti for manganese uptake required for protection against oxidative stress. Journal of bacteriology 189: 2101–2109. [[Davies_DisruptionSitaCompromisesSinorhizobiumMeliloti_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Disruption%20of%20sitA%20compromises%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20for%20manganese%20uptake%20required%20for%20protection%20against%20oxidative%20stress%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Disruption%20of%20sitA%20compromises%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20for%20manganese%20uptake%20required%20for%20protection%20against%20oxidative%20stress%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Davies%2C%20B.W.%20Walker%2C%20G.C.%20Disruption%20of%20sitA%20compromises%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20for%20manganese%20uptake%20required%20for%20protection%20against%20oxidative%20stress%202007)

[^53]: Masepohl B, Kutsche M, Riedel KU, Schmehl M, Klipp W, et al. (1992) Functional-Analysis of the Cysteine Motifs in the Ferredoxin-Like Protein Fdxn of Rhizobium-Meliloti Involved in Symbiotic Nitrogen-Fixation. Molecular & General Genetics 233: 33–41. [[Masepohl_et+al_FunctionalanalysisCysteineMotifsFerredoxinlikeProtein_1992]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Masepohl%2C%20B.%20Kutsche%2C%20M.%20Riedel%2C%20K.U.%20Schmehl%2C%20M.%20Functional-Analysis%20of%20the%20Cysteine%20Motifs%20in%20the%20Ferredoxin-Like%20Protein%20Fdxn%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20Involved%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201992) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Masepohl%2C%20B.%20Kutsche%2C%20M.%20Riedel%2C%20K.U.%20Schmehl%2C%20M.%20Functional-Analysis%20of%20the%20Cysteine%20Motifs%20in%20the%20Ferredoxin-Like%20Protein%20Fdxn%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20Involved%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201992) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Masepohl%2C%20B.%20Kutsche%2C%20M.%20Riedel%2C%20K.U.%20Schmehl%2C%20M.%20Functional-Analysis%20of%20the%20Cysteine%20Motifs%20in%20the%20Ferredoxin-Like%20Protein%20Fdxn%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%20Involved%20in%20Symbiotic%20Nitrogen-Fixation%201992)

[^54]: Hirsch AM, Bang M, Ausubel FM (1983) Ultrastructural Analysis of Ineffective Alfalfa Nodules Formed by nif::Tn5 Mutants of Rhizobium-Meliloti. Journal of bacteriology 155: 367–380. [[Hirsch_et+al_UltrastructuralAnalysisIneffectiveAlfalfaNodules_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Bang%2C%20M.%20Ausubel%2C%20F.M.%20Ultrastructural%20Analysis%20of%20Ineffective%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%20Formed%20by%20nif%3A%3A%20Tn5%20Mutants%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Bang%2C%20M.%20Ausubel%2C%20F.M.%20Ultrastructural%20Analysis%20of%20Ineffective%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%20Formed%20by%20nif%3A%3A%20Tn5%20Mutants%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Hirsch%2C%20A.M.%20Bang%2C%20M.%20Ausubel%2C%20F.M.%20Ultrastructural%20Analysis%20of%20Ineffective%20Alfalfa%20Nodules%20Formed%20by%20nif%3A%3A%20Tn5%20Mutants%20of%20Rhizobium-Meliloti%201983)

[^55]: Lodwig E, Poole P (2003) Metabolism of Rhizobium bacteroids. Critical reviews in plant sciences 22: 37–78. [[Lodwig_MetabolismRhizobiumBacteroids_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroids%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroids%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Lodwig%2C%20E.%20Poole%2C%20P.%20Metabolism%20of%20Rhizobium%20bacteroids%202003)

[^56]: Koski LB, Golding GB (2001) The closest BLAST hit is often not the nearest neighbor. J Mol Evol 52: 540–542. [[Koski_ClosestBlastOftenNearestNeighbor_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Koski%2C%20L.B.%20Golding%2C%20G.B.%20The%20closest%20BLAST%20hit%20is%20often%20not%20the%20nearest%20neighbor%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Koski%2C%20L.B.%20Golding%2C%20G.B.%20The%20closest%20BLAST%20hit%20is%20often%20not%20the%20nearest%20neighbor%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Koski%2C%20L.B.%20Golding%2C%20G.B.%20The%20closest%20BLAST%20hit%20is%20often%20not%20the%20nearest%20neighbor%202001)

[^57]: Duarte NC, Becker SA, Jamshidi N, Thiele I, Mo ML, et al. (2007) Global reconstruction of the human metabolic network based on genomic and bibliomic data. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104: 1777–1782. [[Duarte_et+al_GlobalReconstructionHumanMetabolicNetwork_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Duarte%2C%20N.C.%20Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Jamshidi%2C%20N.%20Thiele%2C%20I.%20Global%20reconstruction%20of%20the%20human%20metabolic%20network%20based%20on%20genomic%202007)

[^58]: Schomburg I, Chang A, Ebeling C, Gremse M, Heldt C, et al. (2004) BRENDA, the enzyme database: updates and major new developments. Nucleic Acids Res 32: D431–433. [[Schomburg_et+al_BrendaEnzymeDatabaseUpdatesMajor_2004]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schomburg%2C%20I.%20Chang%2C%20A.%20Ebeling%2C%20C.%20Gremse%2C%20M.%20BRENDA%2C%20the%20enzyme%20database%3A%20updates%20and%20major%20new%20developments%202004) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schomburg%2C%20I.%20Chang%2C%20A.%20Ebeling%2C%20C.%20Gremse%2C%20M.%20BRENDA%2C%20the%20enzyme%20database%3A%20updates%20and%20major%20new%20developments%202004) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schomburg%2C%20I.%20Chang%2C%20A.%20Ebeling%2C%20C.%20Gremse%2C%20M.%20BRENDA%2C%20the%20enzyme%20database%3A%20updates%20and%20major%20new%20developments%202004)

[^59]: Schellenberger J, Park JO, Conrad TM, Palsson BO (2010) BiGG: a Biochemical Genetic and Genomic knowledgebase of large scale metabolic reconstructions. BMC Bioinformatics 11: 213. [[Schellenberger_et+al_BiggBiochemicalGeneticGenomicKnowledgebase_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20J.O.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20BiGG%3A%20a%20Biochemical%20Genetic%20and%20Genomic%20knowledgebase%20of%20large%20scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%202010) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20J.O.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20BiGG%3A%20a%20Biochemical%20Genetic%20and%20Genomic%20knowledgebase%20of%20large%20scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%202010) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Schellenberger%2C%20J.%20Park%2C%20J.O.%20Conrad%2C%20T.M.%20Palsson%2C%20B.O.%20BiGG%3A%20a%20Biochemical%20Genetic%20and%20Genomic%20knowledgebase%20of%20large%20scale%20metabolic%20reconstructions%202010)

[^60]: Ma H, Zeng AP (2003) Reconstruction of metabolic networks from genome data and analysis of their global structure for various organisms. Bioinformatics 19: 270–277. [[Ma_ReconstructionMetabolicNetworksFromGenome_2003]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ma%2C%20H.%20Zeng%2C%20A.P.%20Reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20networks%20from%20genome%20data%20and%20analysis%20of%20their%20global%20structure%20for%20various%20organisms%202003) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ma%2C%20H.%20Zeng%2C%20A.P.%20Reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20networks%20from%20genome%20data%20and%20analysis%20of%20their%20global%20structure%20for%20various%20organisms%202003) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ma%2C%20H.%20Zeng%2C%20A.P.%20Reconstruction%20of%20metabolic%20networks%20from%20genome%20data%20and%20analysis%20of%20their%20global%20structure%20for%20various%20organisms%202003)

[^61]: Kanehisa M, Goto S, Hattori M, Aoki-Kinoshita KF, Itoh M, et al. (2006) From genomics to chemical genomics: new developments in KEGG. Nucleic Acids Res 34: D354–357. [[Kanehisa_et+al_FromGenomicsChemicalGenomicsDevelopments_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20new%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20new%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Kanehisa%2C%20M.%20Goto%2C%20S.%20Hattori%2C%20M.%20Aoki-Kinoshita%2C%20K.F.%20From%20genomics%20to%20chemical%20genomics%3A%20new%20developments%20in%20KEGG%202006)

[^62]: Jenuth JP (2000) The NCBI. Publicly available tools and resources on the Web. Methods Mol Biol 132: 301–312. [[Jenuth_NcbiPubliclyAvailableToolsResources_2000]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jenuth%2C%20J.P.%20The%20NCBI.%20Publicly%20available%20tools%20and%20resources%20on%20the%20Web%202000) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jenuth%2C%20J.P.%20The%20NCBI.%20Publicly%20available%20tools%20and%20resources%20on%20the%20Web%202000) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jenuth%2C%20J.P.%20The%20NCBI.%20Publicly%20available%20tools%20and%20resources%20on%20the%20Web%202000)

[^63]: UniProt Consortium (2010) The Universal Protein Resource (UniProt) in 2010. Nucleic Acids Res 38: D142–148. [[Consortium_UniversalProteinResourceuniprot2010_2010]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=UniProt%20Consortium%202010%20The%20Universal%20Protein%20Resource%20UniProt%20in%202010%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%2038%20D142148) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=UniProt%20Consortium%202010%20The%20Universal%20Protein%20Resource%20UniProt%20in%202010%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%2038%20D142148) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=UniProt%20Consortium%202010%20The%20Universal%20Protein%20Resource%20UniProt%20in%202010%20Nucleic%20Acids%20Res%2038%20D142148)

[^64]: Mao C, Qiu J, Wang C, Charles TC, Sobral BW (2005) NodMutDB: a database for genes and mutants involved in symbiosis. Bioinformatics 21: 2927–2929. [[Mao_et+al_NodmutdbDatabaseGenesMutantsInvolved_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Mao%2C%20C.%20Qiu%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20C.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20NodMutDB%3A%20a%20database%20for%20genes%20and%20mutants%20involved%20in%20symbiosis%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Mao%2C%20C.%20Qiu%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20C.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20NodMutDB%3A%20a%20database%20for%20genes%20and%20mutants%20involved%20in%20symbiosis%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Mao%2C%20C.%20Qiu%2C%20J.%20Wang%2C%20C.%20Charles%2C%20T.C.%20NodMutDB%3A%20a%20database%20for%20genes%20and%20mutants%20involved%20in%20symbiosis%202005)

[^65]: Becker A, Barnett MJ, Capela D, Dondrup M, Kamp PB, et al. (2009) A portal for rhizobial genomes: RhizoGATE integrates a Sinorhizobium meliloti genome annotation update with postgenome data. J Biotechnol 140: 45–50. [[Becker_et+al_PortalRhizobialGenomesRhizogateIntegrates_2009]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Becker%2C%20A.%20Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Capela%2C%20D.%20Dondrup%2C%20M.%20A%20portal%20for%20rhizobial%20genomes%3A%20RhizoGATE%20integrates%20a%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20genome%20annotation%20update%20with%20postgenome%20data%202009) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20A.%20Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Capela%2C%20D.%20Dondrup%2C%20M.%20A%20portal%20for%20rhizobial%20genomes%3A%20RhizoGATE%20integrates%20a%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20genome%20annotation%20update%20with%20postgenome%20data%202009) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Becker%2C%20A.%20Barnett%2C%20M.J.%20Capela%2C%20D.%20Dondrup%2C%20M.%20A%20portal%20for%20rhizobial%20genomes%3A%20RhizoGATE%20integrates%20a%20Sinorhizobium%20meliloti%20genome%20annotation%20update%20with%20postgenome%20data%202009)

[^66]: Saier MH, Jr., Tran CV, Barabote RD (2006) TCDB: the Transporter Classification Database for membrane transport protein analyses and information. Nucleic Acids Res 34: D181–186. [[Saier_et+al_TcdbTransporterClassificationDatabaseMembrane_2006]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Saier%2C%20Jr.%2C%20M.H.%20Tran%2C%20C.V.%20Barabote%2C%20R.D.%20TCDB%3A%20the%20Transporter%20Classification%20Database%20for%20membrane%20transport%20protein%20analyses%20and%20information%202006) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Saier%2C%20Jr.%2C%20M.H.%20Tran%2C%20C.V.%20Barabote%2C%20R.D.%20TCDB%3A%20the%20Transporter%20Classification%20Database%20for%20membrane%20transport%20protein%20analyses%20and%20information%202006) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Saier%2C%20Jr.%2C%20M.H.%20Tran%2C%20C.V.%20Barabote%2C%20R.D.%20TCDB%3A%20the%20Transporter%20Classification%20Database%20for%20membrane%20transport%20protein%20analyses%20and%20information%202006)

[^67]: Ren Q, Chen K, Paulsen IT (2007) TransportDB: a comprehensive database resource for cytoplasmic membrane transport systems and outer membrane channels. Nucleic Acids Res 35: D274–279. [[Ren_Chen_2007]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Ren%2C%20Q.%20Chen%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Ren%2C%20Q.%20Chen%202007) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Ren%2C%20Q.%20Chen%202007)

[^68]: Becker SA, Feist AM, Mo ML, Hannum G, Palsson BO, et al. (2007) Quantitative prediction of cellular metabolism with constraint-based models: the COBRA Toolbox. Nat Protoc 2: 727–738. [[Becker_et+al_QuantitativePredictionCellularMetabolismWith_2007]] [OA](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Hannum%2C%20G.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20Toolbox%202007) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Becker%2C%20S.A.%20Feist%2C%20A.M.%20Mo%2C%20M.L.%20Hannum%2C%20G.%20Quantitative%20prediction%20of%20cellular%20metabolism%20with%20constraint-based%20models%3A%20the%20COBRA%20Toolbox%202007) 

[^69]: McRae D, Miller R, Berndt W, Joy K (1989) Transport of C4-dicarboxylates and amino acids by Rhizobium meliloti bacteroids. Mol Plant-Microbe Interact 2: 273–278. [[Mcrae_et+al_TransportC4dicarboxylatesAminoAcidsRhizobium_1989]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=McRae%2C%20D.%20Miller%2C%20R.%20Berndt%2C%20W.%20Joy%2C%20K.%20Transport%20of%20C4-dicarboxylates%20and%20amino%20acids%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20bacteroids%201989) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=McRae%2C%20D.%20Miller%2C%20R.%20Berndt%2C%20W.%20Joy%2C%20K.%20Transport%20of%20C4-dicarboxylates%20and%20amino%20acids%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20bacteroids%201989) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=McRae%2C%20D.%20Miller%2C%20R.%20Berndt%2C%20W.%20Joy%2C%20K.%20Transport%20of%20C4-dicarboxylates%20and%20amino%20acids%20by%20Rhizobium%20meliloti%20bacteroids%201989)

[^70]: Bergersen F (1997) Physiological and biochemical aspects of nitrogen fixation by bacteroids in soybean nodule cells. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 29: 875–880. [[Bergersen_PhysiologicalBiochemicalAspectsNitrogenFixation_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.%20Physiological%20and%20biochemical%20aspects%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroids%20in%20soybean%20nodule%20cells%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Bergersen%2C%20F.%20Physiological%20and%20biochemical%20aspects%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroids%20in%20soybean%20nodule%20cells%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Bergersen%2C%20F.%20Physiological%20and%20biochemical%20aspects%20of%20nitrogen%20fixation%20by%20bacteroids%20in%20soybean%20nodule%20cells%201997)

[^71]: Krusell L, Krause K, Ott T, Desbrosses G, Kr mer U, et al. (2005) The sulfate transporter SST1 is crucial for symbiotic nitrogen fixation in Lotus japonicus root nodules. The Plant Cell Online 17: 1625. [[Krusell_et+al_SulfateTransporterSst1CrucialSymbiotic_2005]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Krusell%2C%20L.%20Krause%2C%20K.%20Ott%2C%20T.%20Desbrosses%2C%20G.%20The%20sulfate%20transporter%20SST1%20is%20crucial%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20root%20nodules%202005) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Krusell%2C%20L.%20Krause%2C%20K.%20Ott%2C%20T.%20Desbrosses%2C%20G.%20The%20sulfate%20transporter%20SST1%20is%20crucial%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20root%20nodules%202005) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Krusell%2C%20L.%20Krause%2C%20K.%20Ott%2C%20T.%20Desbrosses%2C%20G.%20The%20sulfate%20transporter%20SST1%20is%20crucial%20for%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20Lotus%20japonicus%20root%20nodules%202005)

[^72]: Jiang G, Krishnan AH, Kim YW, Wacek TJ, Krishnan HB (2001) A functional myo-inositol dehydrogenase gene is required for efficient nitrogen fixation and competitiveness of Sinorhizobium fredii USDA191 to nodulate soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.). Journal of bacteriology 183: 2595. [[Jiang_et+al_FunctionalinositolDehydrogenaseGeneRequired_2001]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Jiang%2C%20G.%20Krishnan%2C%20A.H.%20Kim%2C%20Y.W.%20Wacek%2C%20T.J.%20A%20functional%20myo-inositol%20dehydrogenase%20gene%20is%20required%20for%20efficient%20nitrogen%20fixation%20and%20competitiveness%20of%20Sinorhizobium%20fredii%20USDA191%20to%20nodulate%20soybean%20%28Glycine%20max%20%5BL.%5D%20Merr.%29%202001)

[^73]: Miller RW, Sirois JC (1983) Calcium and magnesium effects on symbiotic nitrogen fixation in the alfalfa (M. sativa)-Rhizobium meliloti system. Physiologia Plantarum 58: 464–470. [[Miller_CalciumMagnesiumEffectsSymbioticNitrogen_1983]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Miller%2C%20R.W.%20Sirois%2C%20J.C.%20Calcium%20and%20magnesium%20effects%20on%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20alfalfa%20%28M.%20sativa%29-Rhizobium%20meliloti%20system%201983) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Miller%2C%20R.W.%20Sirois%2C%20J.C.%20Calcium%20and%20magnesium%20effects%20on%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20alfalfa%20%28M.%20sativa%29-Rhizobium%20meliloti%20system%201983) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Miller%2C%20R.W.%20Sirois%2C%20J.C.%20Calcium%20and%20magnesium%20effects%20on%20symbiotic%20nitrogen%20fixation%20in%20the%20alfalfa%20%28M.%20sativa%29-Rhizobium%20meliloti%20system%201983)

[^74]: Udvardi MK, Day DA (1997) Metabolite transport across symbiotic membranes of legume nodules. Annual Review of Plant Biology 48: 493–523.  [[Udvardi_MetaboliteTransportAcrossSymbioticMembranes_1997]] [OA](https://api.scholarcy.com/oa_version?query=Udvardi%2C%20M.K.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Metabolite%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20of%20legume%20nodules%201997) [GScholar](https://scholar.google.co.uk/scholar?q=Udvardi%2C%20M.K.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Metabolite%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20of%20legume%20nodules%201997) [Scite](https://api.scholarcy.com/scite_url?query=Udvardi%2C%20M.K.%20Day%2C%20D.A.%20Metabolite%20transport%20across%20symbiotic%20membranes%20of%20legume%20nodules%201997)

